.\" $Id: dspam_corpus.1,v 1.5 2006/05/13 01:12:58 jonz Exp $
.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" dspam_corpus3.2
.\"
.\" Authors:    Jonathan A. Zdziarski <jonathan@nuclearelephant.com>
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2006 Jonathan A. Zdziarski
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH dspam_corpus 1  "May 31, 2004" "DSPAM" "DSPAM"

.SH NAME
dspam_corpus - corpus-feed a corpus of mail

.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B dspam_corpus
[\c
.I \--spam|--nonspam\fR\c
]
[\c
.I \--quiet\fR\c
]
[\c
.BI \ username \fR
]
[\c
.BI \ filename \fR
]

.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION 
.LP
.B dspam_corpus
is used to feed a corpus of mail (in mailbox format). This tool may be used
to build a database of spam, nonspam, or both. NOTE: It is recommended that
dspam_train be used instead of dspam_corpus for day-to-day training. The
dspam_corpus tool is useful for building corpuses of data, but this is likely
to be far less accurate in real-world use than dspam_train.

.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \--spam|--nonspam\fR\c
Identifies that the corpus being trained is a corpus of spam or nonspam. 
 
.n3
.TP
.BI \--quiet\fR\c
Quiet mode. Supresses output.

.n3 3
.TP
.BI [username]\c
Specifies the user to train.

.n3 3
.TP
.BI [filename]\c
Specifies the pathname to the mailbox file containing the corpus mail.

.SH EXIT VALUE
.LP
.ne 3
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
Operation was successful.
.ne 3
.TP
.B other
Operation resulted in an error. 
.PD

.SH AUTHORS
.LP

Jonathan A. Zdziarski

For more information, see http://www.nuclearelephant.com.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dspam (1),
.BR dspam_stats (1),
.BR dspam_clean (1),
.BR dspam_dump (1),
.BR dspam_merge (1)
