.\" $Id: dspam_clean.1,v 1.6 2007/03/18 16:55:07 jonz Exp $
.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" dspam_clean3.8
.\"
.\" Authors:    Jonathan A. Zdziarski <jonathan@nuclearelephant.com>
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2006 Jonathan A. Zdziarski
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH dspam_clean 1  "May 31, 2004" "DSPAM" "DSPAM"

.SH NAME
dspam_clean - perform periodic maintenance of metadata

.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B dspam_clean
[\c
.I \-s[signature_life]\fR\c
]
[\c
.I \-p[probability_life]\fR\c
]
[\c
.I \-u[sl,hcl,shl,ihl]\fR
]
[\c
.I \ user1 user2 ... userN \fR
]

.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION 
.LP
.B dspam_clean
is used to perform periodic housecleaning on DSPAM's metadata dictionary by
deleting old or useless data. 

.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-s\fR\c
Performs stale signature purging. If a value is specified, the default value of
14 days will be overridden. Specifying an age of 0 will delete all signatures
from the user(s) processed.

.n 3
.TP
.BI \-p\fR\c
Deletes all tokens from the target user(s) database whose probability is
between 0.35 and 0.65 (fairly neutral, useless data). If a value is
specified, the default life of 30 days will be overridden. It's a good idea
to use this flag once with a life of 0 days for users after a significant amount
of corpus training. 

.n 3
.TP
.BI \-u\fR\c
Deletes all unused tokens from a user's dataset. Four different life values
are used:

.B sl
Stale tokens which have not been used for a long period of time

.B hcl
Tokens with a total hit count below 5 (which will be assigned a hapaxial value
by DSPAM)

.B shl
Tokens witha single spam hit

.B ihl
Tokens with a single innocent hit

Ages may be overridden by specifying a format string, such as -u30,15,10,10
where each number represents the respective life. Specifying a life of zero
will delete all unused tokens in the category.

.n 3
.TP
.BI \ user1\ user2\ ...\ userN\fR\c
Specify the username(s) to perform the selected maintenance operations on. If
no username is specified, all users are processed.

.SH EXIT VALUE
.LP
.ne 3
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
Operation was successful.
.ne 3
.TP
.B other
Operation resulted in an error. 
.PD

.SH AUTHORS
.LP

Jonathan A. Zdziarski

For more information, see http://www.nuclearelephant.com.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dspam (1),
.BR dspam_stats (1),
.BR dspam_dump (1),
.BR dspam_train (1),
.BR dspam_merge (1)
