.\" $Id: dspam_train.1,v 1.3 2006/05/14 15:37:30 jonz Exp $
.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" dspam_train3.6
.\"
.\" Authors:    Jonathan A. Zdziarski <jonathan@nuclearelephant.com>
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2006 Jonathan A. Zdziarski
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH dspam_train 1  "Jan 24, 2006" "DSPAM" "DSPAM"

.SH NAME
dspam_train - train a corpus of mail

.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B dspam_train
[\c
.BI \ username \fR
]
[\c
.BI \ spam_dir \fR
]
[\c
.BI \ nonspam_dir \fR
]

.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION 
.LP
.B dspam_train
is used to train and test a corpus of mail (in maildir format). This 
tool will present each message to dspam for a classification and then
retrain only if the message was incorrect. This provides close to real-world
training and should be used to build pretrained databases. Upon execution,
the tool will automatically determine the ratio of spam:nonspam and train
based on that ratio to ensure both corpora are trained consecutively. This
tool can also be used as a test jig to measure the efficiency and accuracy
of a particular corpus against dspam in a given configuration.

.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.ne 3
.TP

.n3 3
.TP
.BI [username]\c
Specifies the user to train.

.n3 3
.TP
.BI [spam_dir]\c
Specifies the pathname to the directory containing the corpus of spam. Each
message should be separate in its own file.

.n3 3
.TP
.BI [nonspam_dir]\c
Specifies the pathname to the directory containing the corpus of nonspam. Each 
message should be separate in its own file.

.SH EXIT VALUE
.LP
.ne 3
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
Operation was successful.
.ne 3
.TP
.B other
Operation resulted in an error. 
.PD

.SH AUTHORS
.LP

Jonathan A. Zdziarski

For more information, see http://www.nuclearelephant.com.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dspam (1),
.BR dspam_stats (1),
.BR dspam_clean (1),
.BR dspam_dump (1),
.BR dspam_merge (1)
