.\" $Id: dspam_dump.1,v 1.5 2006/05/14 15:37:30 jonz Exp $
.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" dspam_dump3.2
.\"
.\" Authors:    Jonathan A. Zdziarski <jonathan@nuclearelephant.com>
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2006 Jonathan A. Zdziarski
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH dspam_dump 1  "May 31, 2004" "DSPAM" "DSPAM"

.SH NAME
dspam_dump - produce a dump of a user's metadata

.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B dspam_dump
[\c
.BI \ username \fR
]
[\c
.BI \ token \fR
]

.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION 
.LP
.B dspam_dump
dumps a user's metadata dictionary to stdout. This can be used to view the
entire contents of a user's dictionary, or used in combination with grep to view
a subset of data. The output provides the token's stored value (in CRC64 
format), the number of spam and nonspam hits, and the token's computed
probability. 

.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \ username \fR\c
The username of the user to dump
 
.n3
.TP
.BI \ token \fR\c
The text string of the token to search for and dump. If no token is specified,
.B all tokens
will be dumped to stdout.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B dspam_dump user "Subject*Viagra"

Dumps the token Subject*Viagra, which represents the word Viagra in the Subject
header, for the user specified.

.SH EXIT VALUE
.LP
.ne 3
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
Operation was successful.
.ne 3
.TP
.B other
Operation resulted in an error. 
.PD

.SH AUTHORS
.LP

Jonathan A. Zdziarski

For more information, see http://www.nuclearelephant.com.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dspam (1),
.BR dspam_stats (1),
.BR dspam_train (1),
.BR dspam_clean (1),
.BR dspam_merge (1)
