.\" $Id: libdspam.3,v 1.6 2006/05/14 15:37:30 jonz Exp $
.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" dspam3.2
.\"
.\" Authors:    Jonathan A. Zdziarski <jonathan@nuclearelephant.com>
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2006 Jonathan A. Zdziarski
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH libdspam 1  "Sep 29, 2004" "libdspam" "libdspam"

.SH NAME
libdspam, dspam_init, dspam_create, dspam_addattribute, dspam_attach, dspam_process, dspam_getsource, dspam_detach, dspam_clearattributes, dspam_destroy 
.PP
DSPAM Core Analyis Engine Functions

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libdspam.h>
.sp
.BI "DSPAM_CTX *dspam_init(const char *" user ", const char *" group ", " 
.BI "  const char *" home ", int " mode ", u_int32_t " flags ");"
.sp
.BI "DSPAM_CTX *dspam_create(const char *" user ", const char *" group ", "
.BI "  const char *" home ", int " mode ", u_int32_t " flags ");"
.sp
.BI "int dspam_addattribute(DSPAM_CTX *" CTX ", const char *" name ", "
.BI "  const char *" value ");"
.sp
.BI "int dspam_clearattributes(DSPAM_CTX *" CTX ");"
.sp
.BI "int dspam_attach(DSPAM_CTX *" CTX ", void *" dbh ");"
.sp
.BI "int dspam_process(DSPAM_CTX *" CTX ", const char *" message ");"
.sp
.BI "int dspam_getsource(DSPAM_CTX *" CTX ", char *" buf ", size_t " size ");"
.sp
.BI "int dspam_detach(DSPAM_CTX *" CTX ");"
.sp
.BI "int dspam_destroy(DSPAM_CTX *" CTX ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION 
\fBlibdspam\fP provides core message processing and classification 
functionality. 
.PP
The \fBdspam_init()\fP function creates and initializes a new classification
context and attaches the context to whatever backend storage facility was
configured. The \fBuser\fP and \fBgroup\fP arguments provided are used to
read and write information stored for the user and group specified. The 
\fBhome\fP argument is used to configure libdspam's storage around the
base directory specified. The \fBmode\fP specifies the operating mode to
initialize the classification context with and may be one of:
.PP
 \fBDSM_PROCESS\fP   Process the message and return a result
 \fBDSM_CLASSIFY\fP  Classify message only, no learning
 \fBDSM_TOOLS\fP     No processing, attach to storage only
.PP
The \fBflags\fP provided further tune the classification context for a specific
function. Multiple flags may be OR'd together.
.PP
 \fBDSF_CHAINED\fP   Use a Chained (Multi-Word) Tokenizer  
 \fBDSF_SBPH\fP      Use Sparse Binary Polynomial Hashing Tokenizer
 \fBDSF_SIGNATURE\fP A binary signature is requested/provided
 \fBDSF_NOISE\fP     Apply Bayesian Noise Reduction logic
 \fBDSF_WHITELIST\fP Use automatic whitelisting logic
 \fBDSF_MERGED\fP    Merge group metadata with user's in memory
.PP
Upon successful completion, \fBdspam_init()\fP will return a pointer to a new
\fBclassification context\fP structure containing a copy of the configuration 
passed into dspam_init(), a connected storage driver handle, and a set of
preliminary user control data read from storage.
.PP
The \fBdspam_create()\fP function performs in exactly the same manner as
the dspam_init() function, but does not attach to storage. Instead, the
caller must also call \fBdspam_attach()\fP after setting any storage-
specific attributes using \fBdspam_addattribute()\fP. This is useful for
cases where the implementor would prefer to configure storage internally
rather than having libdspam read a configuration from a file.
.PP
The \fBdspam_addattribute()\fP function is called to set attributes within
the classification context. Some storage drivers support the use of passing 
specific attributes such as server connect information. The driver-independent
attributes supported by DSPAM include:
.PP
 \fBIgnoreHeader\fP   Specify a specific header to ignore 
 \fBLocalMX\fP        Specify a local mail exchanger to assist in 
                correct results from \fBdspam_getsource()\fP.
.PP
Only driver-dependent attributes need be set prior to a call to 
\fBdspam_attach()\fP. Driver-independent attributes may be set both before
and after storage has been attached.
.PP
The \fBdspam_attach()\fP function attaches the storage interface to the
classification context and alternatively established an initial connection with
storage if \fBdbh\fP is \fBNULL\fP. Some storage drivers support only a
NULL value for dbh, while others (such as mysql_drv, pgsql_drv, and 
sqlite_drv) allow an open database handle to be attached. This function 
should only be called after an initial call to \fBdspam_create()\fP and
should never be called if using \fBdspam_init()\fP, as storage is
automatically attached by a call to dspam_init().
.PP
The \fBdspam_process()\fP function performs analysis of the \fBmessage\fP
passed into it and will return zero on successful completion. If successful,
CTX->result will be set to one of three classification results:
.PP
 \fBDSR_ISSPAM\fP        Message was classified as spam
 \fBDSR_ISINNOCENT\fP    Message was classified as nonspam
 \fBDSR_ISWHITELISTED\fP Recipient was automatically whitelisted
.PP
Should the call fail, one of the following errors will be returned:
.PP
 \fBEINVAL\fP    An invalid call or invalid parameter used.
 \fBEUNKNOWN\fP  Unexpected error, such as malloc() failure
 \fBEFILE\fP     Error opening or writing to a file or file handle
 \fBELOCK\fP     Locking failure
 \fBEFAILURE\fP  The operation itself has failed
.PP
The \fBdspam_getsource()\fP function extracts the source sender from the
message passed in during a call to \fBdspam_process()\fP and writes not more
than \fBsize\fP bytes to \fBbuf\fP.
.PP
The \fBdspam_detach()\fP function can be called when a detachment from
storage is desired, but the context is still needed. The storage driver
is closed, leaving the classification context in place. Once the context
is no longer needed, another call to \fBdspam_destroy()\fP should be
made. If you are closing storage and destroying the context at the same
time, it is not necessary to call this function. Instead you may call
\fBdspam_destroy()\fP directly.
.PP
The \fBdspam_clearattributes()\fP function is called to clear any attributes
previously set using \fBdspam_addattribute()\fP within the classification
context. It is necessary to call this function prior to replacing any
attributes already written.
.PP
The \fBdspam_destroy()\fP function should be called when the context is
no longer needed. If a connection was established to storage internally,
the connection is closed and all data is flushed and written. If a 
handle was attached, the handle will remain open.
.PP 
.SH AUTHORS
.LP

Jonathan A. Zdziarski

For more information, see http://www.nuclearelephant.com.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dspam_stats (1),
.BR dspam_train (1),
.BR dspam_clean (1),
.BR dspam_dump (1),
.BR dspam_merge (1)

