#LyX 1.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 218
\textclass book
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{html, epsfig}
\makeatletter
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme palatino
\graphics default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single 
\papersize letterpaper
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title
\added_space_top vfill \added_space_bottom vfill 

\shape slanted 
Mahogany User Manual
\newline 

\shape default 
\size larger 
Version 0.64 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Sparc
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Author

Copyright 1997-2001 by The Mahogany Development Team
\newline 
 Written by Karsten Ballüder, Vadim Zeitlin et.al.
\newline 

\family typewriter 
http://mahogany.sourceforge.net/
\family default 

\newline 

\family typewriter 
<mahogany-developers@lists.sourceforge.net>
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents{}

\end_inset 


\layout Chapter

Using Mahogany 
\layout Standard
\added_space_top bigskip \align center 

\series bold 
\size large 
Please note that the manual is significantly out of date
\layout Standard
\align center 

\series bold 
\size large 
and may contain information which is not correct any more.
\layout Standard
\align center 
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom bigskip \align center 

\series bold 
\size large 
Any help with keeping it up to date would be very appreciated!
\layout Section

Release Notes_1001_
\layout Standard

Welcome to the new Mahogany release! If you haven't installed the program
 yet, you probably want to start by doing it.
 Please check if we don't have prebuilt binaries for your platform (currently
 we only provide binaries for Linux andWin32).
 If not, you'll have to build it from the sources: please refer to the README
 file for the compilation instructions.
 Mahogany should generally work on any modern Unix flavour but, of course,
 you can always contact us if you have any problems with building it.
\layout Subsection

Changes against the previous versions
\layout Subsubsection

0.64 against 0.63
\layout Standard

This time the most important changes have happened to the already existing
 features many of which were dramatically improved.
 Support for both IMAP4 andPOP3 has got better, many UI improvements were
 done and too many bugs to mention here were fixed.
\layout Standard

The main change without doubt is the complete reorganisation of the program
 internals which now allows us to only download the headers shown on the
 screen from server instead of getting all of them.
 This means that the time needed to open a folder is now almost independent
 of the folder size and Mahogany can be used without troubles with folders
 containing 50000 messages (and maybe more - but this wasn't tested yet).
\layout Standard

But what would be a new release without some new features? So here they
 are:
\layout Itemize

Added optional support for viewing and printing the HTML messages.
 Also added an optional text-only viewer and a viewer bar to quickly change
 the current viewer.
\layout Itemize

Added possibility to monitor a folder (or server) in the background just
 updading the number of messages in it but without actually downloading
 them.
\layout Itemize

IMAP server-side sorting and threading can now be used if available.
 It is also possible to sort and thread messages simultaneously.
 Both are now also done much more efficiently and more correctly.
\layout Itemize

Mahogany now remembers the flags for the POP3 servers and new mail detection
 for them works much more reliably which now makes Mahogany a much better
 POP3 client (provided your server supports UIDL POP command).
 POP3 code also tries to be faster by optionally using TOP instead of downloadin
g the entire messages.
\layout Itemize

Support for List-Post header and the possibility to configure the program
 to automatically reply to the mailing list only.
\layout Itemize

Added rename and copy buttons to the filter editing dialog.
\layout Itemize

Added "Open as readonly" command - this can be significantly faster than
 "Open" for the local folders and also works for the read only files.
\layout Itemize

Added a command to permanently delete messages instead of moving them to
 theTrash folder - useful for dealing with spam.
\layout Itemize

Filters were sped up even more.
 They also show a nicer progress dialog now.
\layout Itemize

Added commands to manually update the status of one or all folders.
\layout Itemize

Also added commands to mark messages as read or unread.
\layout Standard

Some of the notable UI improvements are:
\layout Itemize

Quoting the original text when replying is now optional, you can also choose
 to include only the text selected in the viewer in the reply.
\layout Itemize

Progress dialogs are shown while Mahogany is performing some long operations.
 The existing progress dialogs shown while retrieving the message headers
 now show the details of the messages being retrieved.
\layout Itemize

Password handling in case they are not stored in the config file has been
 improved - Mahogany can now remember them for this session only instead
 of keeping prompting for them.
\layout Itemize

Clicking on the header in the folder view window gives fast access to the
 sorting/threading menu with many useful items.
\layout Itemize

Scrolling beyond the end of the current messages (optionally) selects the
 next unread message or folder.
\layout Itemize

It is possible to rename the folder in the tree and the underlying folder
 file or mailbox independently of each other.
\layout Standard

The Win32 version has now some more of the possibilities of the Unix one:
\layout Itemize

SSL support is now available under Windows.
\layout Itemize

Mahogany can play a sound on receiving a new mail (optionally, of course).
\layout Subsubsection

0.63 against 0.62
\layout Standard

Again, most of the effort went into optimizing the program for speed.
 Filtering and moving mail messages on IMAP servers is now an order of magnitude
 faster and startup time has been reduced too (especially under Windows).
 Several fatal bugs which had unfortunately crept into Win32 release were
 fixed as well.
\layout Standard

The new features this time include
\layout Itemize

Showing the total number and the number of unread messages directly in the
 folder tree
\layout Itemize

New so-called unattended, or away, mode in which all new mail notifications
 and any interactive dialogs are temporarily suppressed
\layout Itemize

A few new commands such as "Clear folder" to delete all messages in a folder
 without even opening it (handy for emptying the trash folder) and "Close"
 and "Close all" folder(s).
\layout Standard

There are several more minor improvements as well:
\layout Itemize

New URL popup menu in the message viewer and "Open URL in new browser window"
 option
\layout Itemize


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Open with...
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 command in attachment context menu
\layout Itemize

A new option to automatically select the units for message size (KB/MB)
\layout Itemize

Python 2.x is now supported and not only 1.5 (Unix)
\layout Standard

Some of non fatal but annoying bugs fixed in this release are:
\layout Itemize

Fixed server side searching (IMAP only)
\layout Itemize

Fixed text highlighting when selecting text in the viewer
\layout Itemize

Renaming of the folders in the tree fixed once again
\layout Subsubsection

0.62 against 0.61
\layout Standard

The main changes in this release concern the Mahogany internals: the stability
 and efficiency have been both greatly improved, in particular it is believed
 that all fatal crashes using IMAP servers are now gone.
 Deleting, expunging and changing the status of the messages is now much
 faster, especially for the folders with a lot of messages.
 Of course, there are also several new features:
\layout Itemize

Order of the folders in the folder tree is customizable, the system folders
 appear at the top (and not scattered through the tree in alphabetical order)
\layout Itemize

Support for flagging the messages was added, the folders containing flagged
 messages are shown in a different colour in the folder tree
\layout Itemize

All folders opened the last time can be remembered and reopened during the
 next run
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
TEXT/PLAIN 
\family default 
attachments can now be optionally shown inline
\layout Itemize

hard limit on number of retrieved messages was added (see 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{limitdatatransfer}

\end_inset 

)
\layout Standard

Many bugs have been fixed:
\layout Itemize

sending mail with local MTA (sendmail) respects BCC settings
\layout Itemize

temporary files with mail messages are not created world readable any more
\layout Itemize

language autodetection fixed
\layout Itemize

messages with embedded MIME attachments are shown correctly
\layout Itemize

server side searching on IMAP servers works
\layout Itemize

renaming folders was fixed
\layout Itemize

crashes when: viewing messages with incorrect date, deleting some folders
 and some others were fixed
\layout Standard

And a few improvements too:
\layout Itemize

better UI for the filters dialogs
\layout Itemize

messages can now also be sorted by status and by size
\layout Itemize

a hard limit on number of the messages retrieved can be set
\layout Subsubsection

0.61 against 0.60 
\layout Standard

Note: the version 0.61 wasn't officially released
\layout Standard

A couple of new features, most importantly:
\layout Itemize

Possibility to save (to the address book) all addresses from a message appearing
anywhere in the headers.
\layout Itemize

It is now possible to import all folder files in MBOX (Unix) format using
 
\noun on 

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

Folder|Import folder tree...
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\noun default 
 command (see 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{Import}

\end_inset 

)
\layout Subsubsection

0.60 against 0.50
\layout Standard

Most importantly, all known major bugs in 0.5 have been fixed in this release.
 We still have some minor buglets and lots of wishes and enhancements on
 our list, but all serious bugs should be gone now.
 A couple of new features have been added:
\layout Itemize

fixes to all serious bugs from version 0.50
\layout Itemize

significantly improved IMAP support: it is now possible to subscribe to
 all folders on an IMAP server with a single click or to manually select
 them from a dialog; Mahogany also uses server side message functions when
 possible resulting in huge performance improvement
\layout Itemize

new, improved filtering system (warning: old filters won't work any more,
 contact us if this is really a serious problem for you)
\layout Itemize

charset and encoding support for message contents and headers (including
 autodetecting the charset of incoming messages and setting it for the outgoing
 ones)
\layout Itemize

mail can be sent using local MTA (sendmail) in addition to SMTP
\layout Itemize

import of settings and folder collections from Pine and XFMail, vCard support
 (import/export from addess book, attach to messages)
\layout Itemize

drag and drop for message copying and moving - "Quick Move" and "Quick Filter"
 functions 
\layout Itemize

folders now can (finally) be renamed 
\layout Itemize

quoted text highlighting in the message viewer! 
\layout Itemize

sort the messages display by simply clicking on the corresponding column,
 the sorting dialog also has been improved 
\layout Itemize

folders with new/recent messages are highlighted in the folder tree 
\layout Itemize

it is possible (although still discouraged) to run Mahogany as root 
\layout Itemize

passwords in the config file are encrypted using TwoFish algorithm 
\layout Itemize

option to always use external editor by default 
\layout Itemize

messages from oneself are optionally marked as such 
\layout Itemize

support for password protected SMTP and NNTP servers 
\layout Itemize

more verbose error reporting and detection 
\layout Itemize

OpenSSL loaded dynamically if available 
\layout Itemize

PalmOS module supports AvantGo/MAL synchronisation 
\layout Itemize

templates now may be used for replying/forwarding as well 
\layout Itemize

many other various fixes
\layout Standard


\series bold 
New experimental features include:
\layout Itemize

supporting multiple-identities and easy switching between them 
\layout Itemize

support of storing configuration settings on an IMAP server allowing to
 share them between different machines/accounts
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Known bugs:
\series default 
 
\layout Itemize

There are always some, listed on our bugtracker at http://mahogany.sourceforge.net
/bugz/ and we are working on them.
\layout Itemize

Version 0.60 suffers from a minor printing bug leading to some overlap between
 strings sometimes, which is due to a bug in wxWindows which will hopefully
 be fixed fairly soon.
\layout Subsubsection

0.5 against 0.23a
\layout Standard

This release has long been delayed, mainly due to us waiting for changes
 in wxWindows to be completed.
 As we introduced new features in the meantime, those introduced new delays,
 and so on.
 It has been more than half a year since the last release, so changes are
 major.
 We hope to stick to a much faster cycle of minor update releases for the
 future.
 The main new features are:
\layout Itemize

Proper support for MH folders.
\layout Itemize

Browsing and subscription management for IMAP and NNTP servers.
\layout Itemize

A plugin module system has been created which allows to dynamically load
 expansion modules.
 Existing modules (statically linked in this release, but dynamically linkable)
 include a filtering language and PalmOS support.
 For the future, a calendar/timeplanner plugin is planned.
\layout Itemize

Configurable filtering rules have been added.
\layout Itemize

Message threading and configurable sort order is supported.
\layout Itemize

An HTML-based help browser has been added.
 
\layout Itemize

Configurable date format.
\layout Itemize

Handling of dial-up networking and detection of connection status.
\layout Itemize

Optional user of a Trash folder.
\layout Itemize

Wizard-dialogs and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

tip of the day
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 dialogs added to make Mahogany easier to use.
\layout Itemize

Optional SSL support can be compiled in (not activated by default due to
 US export restrictions), allowing secure access to mail and news servers.
\layout Itemize

PalmOS handheld connectivity: synchronise e-mails with your PalmOS handheld
 computer and use its addressbook within Mahogany.
 Also, backup, restore and install databases of your handheld.
\layout Itemize

Bug fixes in nearly all parts of the code.
 Mahogany should suffer much less from crashes than earlier versions.
 The message editor behaves better and is faster.
\layout Itemize

Minor GUI improvements like keyboard bindings and nicer icons.
 Support for KDE and GNOME filetype icons.
\layout Subsubsection

0.23a against 0.22a
\layout Standard

The main news is, of course, the long-waited for availability of Win32 version.
 Also:
\layout Itemize

Several bugs in message composer (including a few fatal ones) were fixed.
 Only minor problems still persist.
\layout Itemize

Selections support (copy, cut, paste) in message composer and viewer.
\layout Itemize

The 
\family typewriter 
[Apply]
\family default 
and
\family typewriter 
[Cancel]
\family default 
buttons in the options and folder properties dialogs (mostly) work now.
\layout Itemize

Several minor bug fixes and improvements, including a massive speedup in
 the update of folder listings over slow connections.
\layout Itemize

Printing no longer has overlap between pages.
\layout Itemize

Folders can be kept open all the time to speed up access to them, very useful
 for 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

SentMail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 folder.
\layout Itemize

Better behaved, asks before removing all mail from spool.
\layout Itemize

Configurable templates for message composition and replies.
\layout Itemize

Message boxes now have icons in them.
\layout Itemize

Searching in mail folders.
\layout Itemize

And, of course, updated translations and documentation updates.
\layout Standard

We have also made good progress on the filtering code, PGP/GPG support,
 multi-threading support and support for loadable external modules, but
 these features are not complete yet and disabled in the release.
 Expect them to appear in the next releases.
\layout Subsubsection

0.22a against 0.21a
\layout Standard

Release 0.22a is mainly a bugfix release against 0.21a.
\layout Itemize

All know (crash-inducing) bugs fixed.
 
\layout Itemize

Message editor/viewer improvements, adding clipboard support and selections.
 
\layout Itemize

wxGTK layout bug fixes - German, French, Spanish translations 
\layout Itemize

Text-search in messages 
\layout Itemize

Several minor usability fixes, sub-folder support fixed.
 
\layout Itemize

Addressbook fixes 
\layout Itemize

TCP timeouts configurable 
\layout Itemize

Support for setting the Reply-To: header from To: field in message replies.
\layout Subsubsection

0.10a to 0.21a
\layout Standard

First, there are some user-visible changes against the latest version, most
 notably the much improved message editor.
 This is still work in progress and the next release should add the sorely
 missed cut and paste support which only recently became functional in the
 underlying wxGTK toolkit.
 Also, configurability has been much extended.
 For the first time, Mahogany now defaults to collecting all mail from the
 system's INBOX (whatever that is) to a central 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

New Mail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 folder.
 It can easily be set up to watch any number of different mail accounts
 or newsgroups and collect mail from them.
\layout Standard

This release got a bit delayed because we decided to finish some long planned
 changes under the hood, mainly a complete rewrite of the internal configuration
 system which now provides the inheriting configuration settings we had
 planned, something that will become obvious in the next release when full
 GUI support for it will be added.
 Also, we seriously improved the mailfolder handling code to reliably handle
 all kinds of error conditions, such as modified or disappearing mailboxes
 or terminated connections and recover from them safely.
 Also, Mahogany now has full working support for IMAP, NNTP and newsspools.
\layout Standard

Apart from this there were many minor fixes and changes, both GUI and mail
 code, documented in detail at the end of the TODO file.
\layout Subsection

Known bugs
\layout Itemize

Newsspool support will not work with newsgroups not listed in the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

active
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 file and is little configurable.
\layout Itemize

News is not always the easiest to use, but will be the next thing to improve.
\layout Subsection

TODO, features to implement
\layout Subsubsection

The next few things to be implemented:
\layout Itemize

Multi-threaded folder access, to avoid blocking while retrieving slow remote
 folders/servers.
 This is moreless complete but not enabled in the release as we want to
 test and debug it further before making it the default behaviour.
\layout Itemize

Message editor: rich text editing & HTML (Almost complete, but not activated
 yet.
 Will be there very soon.)
\layout Itemize

A faster mail folder format or support for storing messages in an ODBC database.
\layout Itemize

Support for PGP and GNU Privacy Guard to encrypt mails.
 
\layout Itemize

Wide character (Unicode) and UTF-8 support (waiting for GTK+ 2.0)
\layout Subsection

Help Needed
\layout Standard

As you can see, we have big plans for Mahogany.
 To achieve all this, we need some help.
 Areas where we would use some help are
\layout Itemize

Updating this manual
\layout Itemize

Python 
\layout Itemize

support for other mail protocols and mailfolder file formats, LDAP
\layout Itemize

If you have access to other systems apart from Linux/Solaris/FreeBSD/Windows,
 you are very welcome to help us port Mahogany to those platforms, or to
 other hardware than Intel.
\layout Itemize

Translations to other languages.
\layout Itemize

MacOS development
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Generally we welcome help for anything.
 If you miss a feature in Mahogany, we are more than happy to help you implement
 it yourself.
 Naturally we tend to work on the features that we either need ourselves
 or find interesting to do.
 If your priorities are different, join our team and help us improve it.
 Mahogany is and will always be an OpenSource(TM) project and your involvement
 is wanted! If you have any questions about this, please contact the developers
 at 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
htmladdnormallinkfoot{mahogany-users@lists.sourceforge.net}{mailto:mahogany-users@
lists.sourceforge.net}
\latex default 
.
 If you have questions about the Mahogany License, discuss them with us
 - we don't want the license to scare anyone.
\layout Subsection

Copyright_1003_
\layout Standard

Mahogany is copyright by The Mahogany Development Team (Founding members
 Karsten Ballüder and Vadim Zeitlin).
 It is licensed under the Mahogany 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Artistic License
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 as stated in section
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{License}

\end_inset 

 or, alternatively, under GNU General Public License.
 Some part of the source tree distributed with Mahogany is not covered under
 this license.
 These additional sources can be found in the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\family typewriter 
extra/src
\family default 

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 subdirectory.
 Please check the files in the individual directories for their copyright
 notices.
 However, they can be freely distributed under certain conditions.
\layout Subsubsection

Why not the GPL/BSD/QPL/my favourite license?
\layout Standard

Recently discussions about which license to chose for which project provoked
 major flamewars in the Unix community.
 There is a trend to put everything under the GPL or LGPL
\begin_float footnote 
\layout Standard

which we recently felt victim of - due to some strong demand, we have decided
 to allow alternatively licensing Mahogany under GPL
\end_float 
.
 We do not want to get involved in this highly emotional and political discussio
n.
 Our intent is to allow everyone to use and modify Mahogany while preserving
 some form of control over its development.
 That is why we chose a modified version of Perl's Artistic License.
 It is both more and less restrictive than the GPL in certain ways.
 We do not believe that there is one right license for everything.
 The Mahogany Artistic License is much simpler and easier to understand
 than the GPL, so we feel more comfortable with it.
 If you want to do something with Mahogany and feel that the license poses
 a problem, 
\series bold 
please
\series default 
 contact us! We do not want the license to be a problem and any reasonable
 request for deviating uses of Mahogany will be likely to be granted.
 If in doubt, ask us and we will find a solution.
\layout Subsection

The Mahogany ``Artistic License''
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{License}

\end_inset 


\layout Subsubsection

Preamble
\layout Standard

The intent of this document is to state the conditions under which this
 software package may be copied, such that the Copyright Holder maintains
 some semblance of artistic control over the development of the package,
 while giving the users of the package the right to use and distribute the
 Package in a more-or-less customary fashion, plus the right to make reasonable
 modifications.
 
\layout Standard

This license is based on Perl's ``Artistic License'' and has been adapted
 to better suit Mahogany.
 It aims to confirm with the Open-Source specification.
 If you should have any questions about this license, are unhappy with it
 or simply would like to comment on it, please get in touch with us.
\layout Subsubsection

Definitions
\layout Standard

``Package'' refers to the collection of files distributed by the Copyright
 Holder, and derivatives of that collection of files created through textual
 modification.
 
\layout Standard

``Standard Version'' refers to such a Package if it has not been modified,
 or has been modified in accordance with the wishes of the Copyright Holder
 as specified below.
 
\layout Standard

``Copyright Holder'' is whoever is named in the copyright or copyrights
 for the package.
 
\layout Standard

``You'' is you, if you're thinking about copying or distributing this Package.
 
\layout Standard

``Reasonable copying fee'' is whatever you can justify on the basis of media
 cost, duplication charges, time of people involved, and so on.
 (You will not be required to justify it to the Copyright Holder, but only
 to the computing community at large as a market that must bear the fee.)
 
\layout Standard

``Freely Available'' means that no fee is charged for the item itself, though
 there may be fees involved in handling the item.
 It also means that recipients of the item may redistribute it under the
 same conditions they received it.
 
\layout Paragraph

Conditions of Use
\layout Enumerate

You may make and give away verbatim copies of the source form of the Standard
 Version of this Package without restriction, provided that you duplicate
 all of the original copyright notices and associated disclaimers and only
 distribute the complete package as a whole.
 
\layout Enumerate

You may apply bug fixes, portability fixes and other modifications derived
 from the Public Domain or from the Copyright Holder.
 A Package modified in such a way shall still be considered the Standard
 Version.
 
\layout Enumerate

You may otherwise modify your copy of this Package in any way, provided
 that you insert a prominent notice in each changed file stating how and
 when you changed that file, and provided that you do at least ONE of the
 following: 
\begin_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

place your modifications in the Public Domain or otherwise make them Freely
 Available, such as by posting said modifications to Usenet or an equivalent
 medium, or placing the modifications on a major archive site such as sunsite.unc.
edu, or by allowing the Copyright Holder to include your modifications in
 the Standard Version of the Package, and rename any non-standard executables
 so the names do not conflict with standard executables, which must also
 be provided, and provide a separate manual page for each non-standard executabl
e that clearly documents how it differs from the Standard Version.
 You must not make the modified version depend on any other software or
 library if that software or library is not Freely Available or if it is
 covered under a license more restrictive than this.
 
\layout Enumerate

use the modified Package only within your corporation or organisation.
\layout Enumerate

make other distribution arrangements with the Copyright Holder.
 
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

You may distribute the programs of this Package in object code or executable
 form, provided that you do at least ONE of the following: 
\begin_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

distribute a Standard Version of the executables and library files, together
 with instructions (in the manual page or equivalent) on where to get the
 Standard Version.
 
\layout Enumerate

accompany the distribution with the machine-readable source of the Package
 with your modifications, including the complete machine-readable source
 of the unmodified Standard Version.
 You must not make the modified version depend on any other software or
 library if that software or library is not Freely Available or if it is
 covered under a license more restrictive than this.
 
\layout Enumerate

give non-standard executables non-standard names, and clearly document the
 differences in manual pages (or equivalent), together with instructions
 on where to get the Standard Version.
 d.make other distribution arrangements with the Copyright Holder.
 
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

You may charge a reasonable copying fee for any distribution of this Package.
 You may charge any fee you choose for support of this Package.
 You may not charge a fee for this Package itself.
 However, you may distribute this Package in aggregate with other (possibly
 commercial) programs as part of a larger (possibly commercial) software
 distribution provided that you do not advertise this Package as a product
 of your own.
 
\layout Enumerate

The name of the Copyright Holder may not be used to endorse or promote products
 derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
 However, all products derived from this software must reproduce the original
 copyright notice as found in the Standard Version.
 
\layout Enumerate

THIS PACKAGE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES
, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
 AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
 
\layout Subsection

The License Dialog_4270_
\layout Standard

When you start Mahogany for the first time, it will display the license
 and conditions of use and ask you to accept or reject the license.
 If you do not accept it, Mahogany will terminate.
 If you have any questions about the license or want to otherwise comment
 on it, please email the development team at 
\family typewriter 
mahogany-users@lists.sourceforge.net
\family default 
 .
\layout Subsection

Additional Credits
\layout Paragraph

C-Client library: 
\layout Standard

The use of the c-client library requires us to display the following copyright
 notice:
\layout Quote

Copyright 1999 by the University of Washington
\newline 
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentat
ion for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the
 above copyright notice appears in all copies and that both the above copyright
 notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and
 that the name of the University of Washington not be used in advertising
 or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
 written prior permission.\SpecialChar ~
 This software is made available "as is", and THE
 UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
 WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ALL IMPLIED
 WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND
 IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL,
 INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM
 LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING
 NEGLIGENCE) OR STRICT LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
 USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
\layout Subsubsection

The OpenSSL toolkit:
\layout Standard

Mahogany can be linked with the OpenSSL toolkit to support secure communications
 over SSL.
 In that case, we must give due credit to the authors and copyright of this
 library:
\layout Quote

This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project for use
 in the 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
htmladdnormallinkfoot{OpenSSL Toolkit}{http://www.openssl.org/}
\latex default 
 .This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young (eay@cryptso
ft.com) This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"
\layout Subsubsection

wxWindows:
\layout Standard

We gratefully acknowledge the use of the 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
htmladdnormallinkfoot{wxWindows}{http://www.wxwindows.org/}
\latex default 
 cross-platform class library and the excellent work and support of the
 wxWindows developer team.
 
\layout Section

Introduction / Tutorial
\layout Standard

To get started on Mahogany, you should look at the following sections of
 this manual:
\layout Itemize

The Folder Tree (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{FolderTreeCtrl}

\end_inset 

) and how to create new folders (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{CreateNewFolderDialog}

\end_inset 

).
\layout Itemize

The explanation of the INBOX (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{INBOX Folder}

\end_inset 

) and New Mail (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{New Mail Folder}

\end_inset 

) folders.
\layout Standard

Obviously, the more of this manual you read, the better use you can make
 of Mahogany.
 Once the manual has grown too large, we will provide a short tutorial,
 but for now we go on coding instead.
\layout Subsection

Getting started
\layout Standard

When you start Mahogany for the first time, it will first ask you to accept
 the terms of its license.
 Note that you must accept it to be able to use the program.
 After doing it, you will see the installation wizard.
 It will guide you through several pages whose purpose is to get the information
 absolutely required for running the program and also prepare a useable
 initial setup for you.
 Please avoid abandoning the wizard unless you really know what you are
 doing, so just click next and ignore the checkbox on the first page for
 now.
\layout Standard

It is quite likely that you already have some other email program installed
 on your computer.
 Mahogany may import the configuration settings for some of them (currently,
 Netscape Communicator, Pine and XFMail but we have plans to add support
 for more programs in the future) meaning that it will provide your existing
 settings as the default values in the next pages.
 Of course, it is absolutely safe to just skip this step and continue directly.
\layout Standard

Next page asks you for your minimal personal information.
 You may enter an empty personal name here if you wish (although it is better
 to enter something) but it is required that you enter a valid email address
 below.
 It will be used as your default return email address.
 Note that you will be able to change this address in the future in the
 program prefernces dialog as well as add other identities, possibly with
 different email addresses, later.
\layout Standard

The next page proposes you to setup some default servers.
 Windows users 
\series bold 
must
\series default 
 specify an SMTP server here.
 Under Unix you may leave it empty if you want to use a local MTA such as
 
\noun on 
sendmail
\noun default 
, 
\noun on 
qmail
\noun default 
 or
\noun on 
 exim.

\noun default 
 For the other servers you are free to enter the server name or leave the
 entry empty if you don't want to use it.
\layout Standard

The following page is more interesting as it gives you the possibility to
 configure some of the basic Mahogany options to your liking.
 Let's consider them in order:
\layout Itemize

Collect new mail (Unix only): typically, new mail arrives into the system
 
\noun on 
Inbox
\noun default 
 folder on a Unix workstation.
 It is strongly recommended that you don't leave it there but copy it immediatel
y instead into your own mail folder.
 Mahogany proposes to do this for you by default, please let it do it unless
 you know better.
\layout Itemize

Use Trash mailbox: this should be self explanatory except that you should
 note that this is just the global default setting and that it can be changed
 later on folder per folder basis (i.e.
 you can have some unimportant folders from which mail is deleted directly
 but just move the more important messages from other folders.
 which you might wish to undelete later, to the Trash).
\layout Itemize

Use Outbox: again, this should be clear but this is a global setting.
 It can be changed later but it is probably worth setting it right from
 the very beginning.
 If you have a permanent net connection you probably don't need to use it.
\layout Itemize

Use dial-up network: Mahogany may bring up or down your Internet connection
 for the dial up users.
 This is a half-experimental feature and, as above, is not particularly
 useful if have a permanent net connection
\layout Itemize

Mailbox format (Unix only): this allows you to select the format for the
 local system mailbox files Mahogany is going to create soon (you will be
 able to choose the format for the folders you create yourself when you
 do it, of course).
 The default is the MBX format which is by far the most efficient but it
 is a binary format which is not understood by as many programs as the tradition
al Berkeley MBOX format.
\layout Standard

After finishing with the previous page you are almost done - the last page
 of the wizard doesn't have any more options.
 It just proposes you to send a test email to the address you had entered
 in the beginning (remember that it must have been a valid one?).
 If you are absolutely sure that you made no mistakes or if you can't or
 don't want to send mail currently, please uncheck the checkbox at the bottom
 of the page.
 Otherwise, let Mahogany do it as it might discover some problem with your
 SMTP server.
 In any case, you should now see the main Mahogany window which is described
 in the main section in front of you and it means that Mahogany has been
 successfully installed.
 Congratulations!
\layout Subsection

The main window
\layout Standard

The main window is broken in three parts.
 There is a tree of folders (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{FolderTreeCtrl}

\end_inset 

) on the left and a view of the currently selected folder (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{FolderView}

\end_inset 

) to the right of it which itself has two parts: the upper one shows the
 list of all messages in the folder while the lower one shows the currently
 previewed message.
\layout Standard

The installation wizard has created a small number of standard folders that
 Mahogany uses itself.
 Exactly which folders you now see on your screen depends, of course, on
 the choices you have done in the wizard but it should be a subset of the
 following list:
\layout Itemize


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

SentMail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

: This folder is always created as Mahogany stores copies of the messages
 you send in it.
 You may tell Mahogany not to do it or save them in a different folder by
 modifying the options near the top of the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Compose
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 page in the preferences dialog.
\layout Itemize


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Trash
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

: If you have chosen to use it in the wizard, this is the folder where the
 deleted messages will be moved to.
 The settings for using it can be found in the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Folders
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 page of the preferences dialog.
\layout Itemize


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

New Mail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

: This is the central new mail folder.
 Under Unix the messages arriving into the system 
\noun on 
Inbox
\noun default 
 will be moved here.
 Also, when you choose to collect mail from a remote POP3 or IMAP4 server
 (see next subsection) it will be moved here as well.
\layout Itemize


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

INBOX
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 represents the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

system inbox
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 for your system.
 You will only see it if you had chosen (in spite of multiple advices against
 it) to not move new mail from it to the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

New Mail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 folder.
 Exact location of this folder depends on your system setup but some common
 locations are 
\family typewriter 
/var/spool/mail
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
/var/mail.
\layout Itemize

Server entries: you may also have entries for POP3, IMAP and NNTP folders
 if you had specified them in the installation wizard.
 They are described in details below.
\layout Standard

The folder view on the right should show only one or two messages right
 now (unless you already had some mail in your 
\noun on 
Inbox
\noun default 
).
 The first of them should be self-explanatory and the second, if any, is
 the test message Mahogany has sent to test your configuration.
 If you didn't disable this test but don't see this message in the folder,
 something may have gone wrong.
 Please look at the activity log window which Mahogany has also created
 to see if there are any errors in it.
 Also please see (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{Troubleshooting}

\end_inset 

) section.
\layout Subsection

How to configure POP and IMAP folders?
\layout Standard

Although the installation wizard did create entries for POP and/or IMAP
 servers in the folder, they are probably not very useful right now.
 Or maybe you didn't create them then and want to do it now - then just
 choose 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Create
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 item from the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Folder
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 menu and follow the instructions.
 If you are already fed up with the wizards you may prefer to dismiss it
 on the first page by selecting the checkbox there and enter all the folder
 parameters directly in the folder properties dialog.
\layout Standard

If you have let the wizard create the folder, you still need to use the
 folder properties dialog to customize it.
 By the way, this dialog can be accessed by selecting the corresponding
 item either from the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Folder
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 menu in the menu bar or from the popup menu you obtain by right-clicking
 the folder in the tree.
\layout Standard

Browse this dialog to get an idea of some of the options you may change.
 Please note that most of the options in the first, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Access
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, page cannot be changed after the folder creation.
 The different options are described in more details elsewhere in this manual.
\layout Standard

Right now let us just give some examples of the typical configurations:
\layout Enumerate

Typical POP3 server: normally, the new mail is downloaded from the POP3
 folders locally so go to the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

New Mail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 page and select 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Collect new mail from this folder
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 This will move all new mail from the POP3 server to the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

New Mail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 folder.
 If you want to copy it instead just check the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Leave mail on this server
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 checkbox as well.
 Finally, if you want Mahogany to check the POP3 folder for the updates
 automatically please check the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Permanently monitor this folder
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 checkbox and change the polling interval for it if needed.
\layout Enumerate

IMAP server with only INBOX: if you only have INBOX folder on your IMAP
 server you may configure it exactly as the POP3 server above.
 You may also decide not to collect mail from it but read it directly on
 the server - this is, in fact, the preferred mode of operation as this
 works much better with IMAP than with POP.
\layout Enumerate

IMAP server with multiple folders: in this case you almost surely don't
 want to download all new mail from the IMAP INBOX to the local folders
 but keep it on server.
 You will probably be interested in using filters (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{Filters}

\end_inset 

) in this case.
\layout Subsection

How to set up your mail accounts
\layout Standard

** This is currently missing, see the text in the FAQ.
 I will explain here how to set up your accounts.
\layout Section

Setting up Mahogany, its configuration files
\layout Subsection

User configuration files (Unix only)
\layout Standard

When run for the first time, 
\emph on 
Mahogany
\emph default 
 creates a directory called 
\family typewriter 
.M
\family default 
 in the user's home directory.
 The file 
\family typewriter 
$HOME/.M/config
\family default 
 will contain the current program configuration for this user.
 Only values different from the default configuration are stored here.
 If you want to obtain a list of all possible options (although arguably
 if you are so curious, you'd better read 
\emph on 
Mahogany
\emph default 
 sources directly), you can manually add the entry
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
RecordDefaults = 1
\layout Standard

to the 
\family typewriter 
[M/Profiles]
\family default 
 section of the configuration file.
 This will cause all values which are used to be written to the configuration
 file.
\layout Standard

Note that an easy way to 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

reinstall
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 Mahogany is to move 
\family typewriter 
$HOME/.M/config 
\family default 
file to some other location or even delete it and restart Mahogany - then
 it will go through the installation process once again.
\layout Subsection

System wide configuration file
\layout Standard


\emph on 
Mahogany
\emph default 
 can be pre-configured on a system wide basis by supplying a 
\family typewriter 
M.conf
\family default 
 file in the installation directory (e.g.
 
\family typewriter 
/usr/share/Mahogany/M.conf
\family default 
).
 The syntax for this configuration file is identical to the user's configuration
 file, so you can just copy a user's file to this location and edit it by
 hand.
 Useful settings for a system wide default are servers or mail return addresses.
 Entries prefixed with an exclamation mark 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

!
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 are marked as immutable and cannot be overwritten by the user.
 This can be used by the system administrator to hard-wire certain settings,
 like, for example the return mail addresses or mail servers to use.
\layout Section

The User Interface
\layout Subsection

The Main Window_2001_
\layout Standard


\emph on 
Mahogany
\emph default 
's main window is vertically divided into two parts.
 On the left it has a tree view (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{FolderTreeCtrl}

\end_inset 

) of all available mail or news folders.
 On the right of it, it shows the currently selected folder in a folder
 view (see 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{FolderView}

\end_inset 

).
\layout Subsection

The Folder Tree_2004_
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{FolderTreeCtrl}

\end_inset 

The folder tree shows a hierarchical view of all folders managed by 
\emph on 
Mahogany
\emph default 
, this includes both mail folders and newsgroups.
 Folders can be grouped hierarchically and inherit settings from their parent
 folders (e.g.
 the server host).
 Clicking the right mouse button on any tree node will pop up a menu with
 some options.
 To open a folder or connection to a server for the first time, choose 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Create New Folder
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 which will show you a dialog (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{CreateNewFolderDialog}

\end_inset 

).
\layout Subsection

Create New Folder Dialog
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{CreateNewFolderDialog}

\end_inset 

This menu entry allows you to open a connection to a server or view a mailfolder.
 No matter whether it is a POP, IMAP, NNTP connection , a file based mailfolder,
 a newsgroup or whatever, Mahogany treats them all the same and calls them
 all 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

folder
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 The dialog has several pages which include at least: 
\series bold 
Access
\series default 
 (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{FolderAccessPage}

\end_inset 

), 
\series bold 
New Mail
\series default 
 ()
\series bold 
, Compose
\series default 
 (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{ComposePage}

\end_inset 

) and 
\series bold 
MessageViewer
\series default 
 (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{MessageViewerPage}

\end_inset 

).
 
\layout Subsubsection

Access_2005_
\layout Itemize


\series bold 

\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{FolderAccessPage}

\end_inset 

Folder Type
\series default 

\newline 
Here you can choose from the currently supported folder types.
 The 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

News
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 type is for reading a local newsspool, it is only partially supported at
 present but should work fine in most circumstances.
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

NNTP
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 is for reading news from a remote newsserver.
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

IMAP
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

POP3
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 are for accessing remote mail server.
 If possible, prefer IMAP over POP, it is much more powerful and significantly
 faster, saving modem time.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
User name
\series default 

\newline 
For those folder types where it is required, the user name or login to get
 access to them.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Password
\series default 

\newline 
For those folder types where it is required, you can specify the password
 here.
 If you leave it empty, Mahogany will prompt you for the password whenever
 it is needed.
 If you want to auto-collect mail from this folder or even just check it
 in the background, you should specify it, otherwise you will be asked for
 it at least once per session (you will be able to tell Mahogany if it should
 keep it for the session duration or not).
 
\series bold 
Note that storing passwords is a potential security risk!
\series default 
 The password typed in here will get stored in your 
\family typewriter 
$HOME/.M/config
\family default 
 configuration file on Unix or in the registry on Windows.
 While this file will be created as only readable by you and the passwords
 be encrypted (using very weak encryption), it is nevertheless a certain
 risk.
 If you accidentally change the permissions of that file, someone else could
 obtain your passwords, though Mahogany would detect this the next time
 it starts and warn you about it.
 
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Server
\series default 

\newline 
For the folders which require a server setting, you can specify the server
 host here.
 If unspecified they will inherit the setting from the global preferences.
 You may use a colon (:) after the server name to specify a non default
 port.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Newsgroup
\series default 

\newline 
For NNTP and Newsspool folders, the name of the newsgroup, e.g.
 comp.os.linux.announce .
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Comment
\series default 

\newline 
Whatever you like to add, this is ignored by Mahogany.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
File name
\series default 

\newline 
For folders of type 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

File
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, the filename or directory where the folder is.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Collect all mail from this folder
\series default 

\newline 
Makes this folder 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

incoming
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 Mahogany will regularly check the folder for new mail and move any messages
 to the global folder for new mail, usually the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

New Mail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 folder.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Keep server connection when idle
\series default 

\newline 
If selected, Mahogany will keep the folder open during the entire program
 session after it had been opened for the first time.
 This can significantly speed up access to large folders as opening them
 can take some time.
 A very useful option for frequently used folders and Mahogany uses it by
 default for the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

SentMail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 folder, for example.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Force re-open on ping
\series default 

\newline 
This forces Mahogany to close and re-open the mailbox when trying to update
 the information about it.
 This is required for some broken servers to correctly detect new mail.
 Usually this should not be needed.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Anonymous access
\series default 

\newline 
This marks the folder as anonymous, such as for anonymous IMAP access, telling
 Mahogany that no user name or password are required to access it.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Use Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)
\series default 

\newline 
This option is only available if your copy of Mahogany was built with SSL
 support.
 Tick this box to access a secure IMAP/POP/NNTP server.
 It must, of course, be supported by the server side, too.
 It will ensure that your communication with the server is encrypted and
 safe from eavesdropping.
 For this to work, the user might also need to open the preferences dialog,
 and, in the 
\series bold 
Misc
\series default 
 tab, fill-out the boxes labeled ``Path where to find shared libssl'' and
 ``Path where to find shared libcrypto''.
 Linux users must also see the SSL section of the FAQ.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Folder can be accessed without network
\newline 

\series default 
This option is only useful if you use Mahogany dial-up support - then check
 it to tell Mahogany that you don't need your Internet connection (and thus
 don't want to dial your ISP) to access this folder.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Can be opened
\series default 

\newline 
This is usually checked for the normal folder but may be unchecked for the
 folders which only contain subfolders (see also below) but not any messages.
 Normally you should allow Mahogany detect this itself, this checkbox is
 only here to allow you to override Mahogany if it does something wrong.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Contains subfolders
\series default 

\newline 
Select this if the mailbox represents not a mailbox or newsgroup but a hierarchy
 on an IMAP or NNTP server.
 E.g.
 comp.os.linux.announce would be a normal newsgroup (unticked), while comp.os.linux
 would be a new hierarchy (ticked).
 Normally you should allow Mahogany detect this itself, this checkbox is
 only here to allow you to override Mahogany if it does something wrong.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Hide folder in tree
\series default 

\newline 
If you do not want this mailbox to be shown in the folder tree (unless you
 select the option to show all hidden folders), tick this box.
 For example, if you move all new mail from your POP3 folder to your INBOX
 you probably don't need to show POP3 folder in the tree at all so you may
 want to hide it to save valuable screen estate.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Folder subtype
\series default 

\newline 
Here you can select some sub-type, e.g.
 different mailbox formats.
 This option cannot be changed after the folder creation.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Icon for this folder
\series default 

\newline 
Allows you to set a different icon for the mailbox.
\layout Subsection

Folder Views_2002_
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{FolderView}

\end_inset 

A Folder View is a window or part of a window displaying the contents of
 a mail folder or a newsgroup.
 It consists of two parts:
\layout Itemize

The list of message headers at the top, showing message subjects, authors,
 dates, etc.
\layout Itemize

The contents of the currently selected message below.
\layout Subsubsection

Understanding the folder view
\layout Standard

The messages are displayed in the folder view according to the curent sort
 order which may be changed either from the folder properties dialog (of
 course, it can be set independently for each folder or be the same for
 all folders at once) or by clicking on the column header.
 In the latter case, clicking on, for example, 
\noun on 

\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Subject
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\noun default 
 column, will sort the messages by subject if they were not sorted by subject
 already, otherwise it will sort them by subject in the reverse order.
 This allows you to sort the listing on some column by just clicking it
 and to reverse the sort order by clicking it again.
\layout Standard

Most of the columns are self explanatory.
 It should be mentioned that the date format is configurable from the folder
 view page of the folder properties dialog and you may set it to anything
 you like.
 In particular, some people find it very useful to show the date in GMT
 instead of the local time.
\layout Standard

The status column (which is usually the first one, although you may change
 the column order from the same page already mentioned above) may be empty
 or contain one or more flags:
\layout Standard


\begin_inset  Tabular
<lyxtabular version="2" rows="7" columns="2">
<features rotate="false" islongtable="false" endhead="0" endfirsthead="0" endfoot="0" endlastfoot="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="false" width="" special="">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="true" width="" special="">
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Symbol
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Meaning
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

*
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

message is flagged or important
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

A
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

message was answered to
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

D
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

message is marked as deleted and will disappear after expunge
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

U
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

message is unread: you haven't seen its body yet
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

R
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

message is recent: this is the first time you see it
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

N
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

message is new: it is recent and unread
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Accordingly, if nothing appears in the status column, the message was read
 but wasn't deleted nor flagged and this is not the first time you see it.
 Note that not all kinds of folders support all kinds of flags: while IMAP
 servers always do, POP servers are not capable of storing the message flags
 and so all messages will always appear as new in them.
\layout Standard

Note that each message flag has also the corresponding colour which is used
 to highlight the message in the folder view and also to highlight the folder
 containing this message in the folder tree.
 These colours can be changed from the folder view page of the options dialog,
 as usual.
\layout Subsubsection

Keyboard and mouse handling
\layout Standard

The reaction to a mouse click in the list of messages depends on the preferences
 setting 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Preview message when selected
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

.
 When the option is selected, a single mouse click will select the message
 and load it into the preview window.
 If the option is not set, the message will only be selected but not previewed
 automatically, which is very useful for accessing mail folders through
 a slow connection.
 The same setting effects the behaviour of the space bar, it acts exactly
 like a single mouse click in the window and will only cause a message to
 be previewed if a single mouse click is configured to do so.
 The space key can be used to view the message under the current cursor.
\layout Standard

Other keyboard bindings are summarized in the following table:
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset  Tabular
<lyxtabular version="2" rows="17" columns="2">
<features rotate="false" islongtable="false" endhead="0" endfirsthead="0" endfoot="0" endlastfoot="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="false" width="" special="">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="true" width="" special="">
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Key
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Action performed
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

*
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

mark/unmark message under cursor
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

SPACE
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

preview message under cursor
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

D or DEL
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

mark selected messages for deletion
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

U
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

remove deletion mark from selected messages
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

X or #
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

expunge messages marked for deletion
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

C
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

copy marked messages to another folder
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

M
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

move selected messages to another folder
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

S
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

save marked messages to files
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

P
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

print marked messages
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

R
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

reply to messages
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

F
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

forward messages
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

O
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

open messages in separate window
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

H
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

toggle display of all headers
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

BACK/PG UP
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

scroll the message preview one page up
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

PG DOWN
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

scroll the message preview one page down
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Ctrl-U
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

view next unread message
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Note that all commands for which it makes sense operate either on the current
 message only if there is no selection or on all selected messages at once.
 You can use the mouse or the cursor arrows together with the SHIFT or CTRL
 keys to select multiple messages at once.
 The commands which affect the message preview are inactive if no message
 is previewed.
\layout Subsection

Migrating from another mail client
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{Import}

\end_inset 


\emph on 
Mahogany
\emph default 
 supports importing the settings from a few other popular mail clients.
 The current list includes Netscape, Pine, XFMail and Eudora.
 Depending on the mail client only part of its settings may be imported
 but in the best case Mahogany can import the address books, the configuration
 settings, the filter rules and the list of folders to use.
 To use this feature, choose 
\noun on 

\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Mail|Import...
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 
\noun default 
command and follow the dialogs.
\layout Standard

Even if you don't find your email client in the list proposed in the dialog,
 everything is not lost.
 You won't be able to import its configuration information nor the filter
 rules but you might still recuperate the address book information if your
 program can export the addresses in the standard comma separated format
 or as vCards.
 In either case you can then import just the address books from the address
 book editor.
\layout Standard

Finally, 
\emph on 
Mahogany
\emph default 
 can automatically create the entries in the folder tree for all MBOX (standard
 Unix format, also used by Eudora) files under the given directory.
 To do this, select the folder in the tree which you want the new folders
 to appear under and choose 
\noun on 

\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Folder|Import folder tree...
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\noun default 
 command.
\layout Section

Reading Mail
\layout Subsection

The INBOX Folder
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{INBOX Folder}

\end_inset 

The folder named INBOX has a special meaning.
 It is the main system mailbox and cannot be deleted or renamed.
 All new mail will arrive in here.
 At present, Mahogany leaves all messages in the system inbox.
 Mahogany will collect mail from several different incoming mailboxes, e.g.
 the INBOX and some additional POP3 accounts, and move them to a new folder.
 
\layout Subsection

The 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

New Mail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 Folder
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{New Mail Folder}

\end_inset 

Created by Mahogany the first time you start it, this is a file mailbox
 which by default receives all new mail.
 If you mark any folder as incoming, its contents will be checked regularly
 and any new mail in it moved to the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

New Mail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 folder.
 If you do not like this name, you can change it in the preferences dialog.
 Mahogany should in all situations recover from closed connections or disappeari
ng mailboxes, so it is safe to let it run over long periods of time.
 If a server connection times out, you will receive one or possibly a few
 error messages but Mahogany will reopen the connection and continue as
 usual.
\layout Subsection

Other Folders
\layout Standard

The folders are organized in a tree structure: this is purely for the convenienc
e of the user, so any folder may contain as many other folders as needed.
 Folders can be managed either from the top level menu or from the popup
 menu in the folder control invoked by pressing the right mouse button in
 it.
 You can group folders together by making the sub folders of another folder.
 This builds no physical connection between the folders but makes the sub
 folder inherit certain configuration defaults settings from their parent
 folder.
 We will soon add a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

folder group
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 folder type not representing any mailbox but just being a group of folders.
\layout Subsection

Accessing Mail Remotely
\layout Standard

Mahogany supports two protocols for accessing remote mail servers: POP3
 and IMAP.
 While POP3 is more commonly available, IMAP is definitely the superiour
 protocol and should be used where available.
 It will generally give you more functionality and will be much faster over
 slow connections.
 Both normally require you to log in with a username and password, but can
 be configured to work anonymously if supported by the server.
 IMAP additionally allows you to access any mailfolder file on the remote
 machine.
 For example, if you use Mahogany on a remote machine 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\family typewriter 
atwork.company.com
\family default 

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, you might have your local 
\family typewriter 
INBOX
\family default 
 (which could be 
\family typewriter 
/var/spool/mail/MyUserName
\family default 
 on a unix box) and also your 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

New Mail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 folder, which usually is 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\family typewriter 
~/.M/New Mail
\family default 

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 With IMAP, if you log in from home, you can not only access your INBOX
 on the atwork.company.com mail server, but also the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\family typewriter 
New Mail
\family default 

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 folder there, by telling Mahogany to use 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\family typewriter 
/home/MyUserName/.M/New Mail
\family default 

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 as the path to the mailbox file.
 Like this, you can access any mail folder on that machine that you have
 access to locally, making remote access to your mail much more flexible
 than just accessing your new messages.
\layout Subsection

Filters
\layout Subsubsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{Filters}

\end_inset 

Overview
\layout Standard

Mahogany has powerful builtin filters.
 The filters are written in a real (albeit small and specialized) programming
 language but there is also GUI support for creating them.
 All the existing filters appear in the dialog shown by the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Filters rules
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 command of the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Edit
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 menu.
 You can also access the filters configured for a specific folder by selecting
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Filters
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 from the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Folders
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 menu.
 The difference between these dialogs is that not all filters are associated
 with all folder, i.e.
 you may have two filters and two folders but the first folder can use only
 the first filter rule and the second - only the second one.
 The global 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Filter rules
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 dialog allows you to manage all the filters but after creating a new one
 you still must associate it with some folder or folders for it to be useful.
\layout Standard

After creating some filters you may go to the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Filters
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 dialog of the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Folder
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 menu (you will also have an opportunity to go directly there immediately
 after the filter creation) and check the filters you would like to use
 for this folder.
 The filters are applied in the order in which they appear in the list,
 so use the up and down buttons to arrange them as needed: the order of
 filters is important because if one filter had decided to move a message
 to another folder the subsequent filters won't process this message at
 all.
\layout Subsubsection

Filter Rule Editor
\layout Standard

This dialog allows you to edit an individual filter.
 You may use the different controls to compose it, note the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

More
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 button which allows you to add a new condition to the rule.
 You may notice that when you change something in the upper part of the
 dialog, the text in the lower part is updated to reflect it: this text
 is the source of the filter program which Mahogany will apply.
 By experimenting with the dialog controls it should be easy to see the
 different possibilities of this language.
 In a few words, it is a C-like language which has several built-in functions
 for testing for the various conditions and performing some actions.
 All of the usual C operations are supported.
\layout Standard

You may also edit the filter program text directly but be warned that it
 will be impossible to use the GUI controls to modify it then because they
 are not flexible enough to be able to express an arbitrary filter program.
\layout Subsubsection

Quick Filter
\layout Standard

There is another, quicker, way to create filters as well: this is done with
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Quick filter
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 command from the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Message
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 menu or the popup menu displayed when you right click the message.
 It allows to easily create filters for the most common cases.
 Note that you may update the filter rule later using the full-fledged filter
 edit dialog if you decide to add more conditions to it, for example.
\layout Section

Sending Mail
\layout Subsection

To: CC: and BCC: Settings
\layout Standard

All of these fields accept either mail addresses, aliases or folder names.
 Aliases must be expanded by using the tabulator key or the Expand button
 next to the fields.
 If multiple entries match the text, you will be prompted with a list to
 choose from.
 
\layout Subsubsection

Using Folder names as an address
\layout Standard

Folder names can be entered by prefixing them with a hash ('#') sign.
 This will cause a copy of the message to be saved in the folder with this
 name.
 If no such folder exists, it will be created in the mail folder directory.
 For example, entering 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

joe.user@foo.com, #myMail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 in the To: field, will send the mail to Joe User and save a copy of it
 in the folder 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

myMail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 Note, that if you have your folders organised hierarchically, you must
 specify the full path to the folder in the folder tree control.
 An example: If you have a group of folders in the tree, called 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Work
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 and want to save a copy of the message to the folder 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

TODO
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 which is a sub-folder of 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Work
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, you need to add 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

#Work/TODO
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 in the address field.
 Instead of using the To: field for this, you can also use CC: or BCC:,
 there is no difference.
\layout Subsubsection

To:
\layout Standard

The primary address to which to send the message, multiple addresses can
 be entered and must be comma-separated.
\layout Subsubsection

CC:
\layout Standard

CC means Carbon Copy - copies of the message will get sent to the addresses
 listed here.
 
\layout Subsubsection

BCC:
\layout Standard

BCC means Blind Carbon Copy - like CC:, copies will be sent to the addresses
 listed here, but the addresses will not be stored in the mail header.
 This allows you to send copies without other recipients of the message
 knowing about it.
\layout Subsection

Key Bindings in the Message Editor
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset  Tabular
<lyxtabular version="2" rows="13" columns="2">
<features rotate="false" islongtable="false" endhead="0" endfirsthead="0" endfoot="0" endlastfoot="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="false" width="" special="">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="true" width="" special="">
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Key
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Function
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

ALT-D
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

delete word
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

CTRL-Y
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

delete line
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

CTRL-U
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

delete to begin of line
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

CTRL-K
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

delete to end of line
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

CTRL-C 
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

copy selection to clipboard
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

SHIFT-INSERT
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

CTRL-X
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

cut selection to clipboard
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

SHIFT-DELETE
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

CTRL-V
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

paste text from clipboard
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

CTRL-INSERT
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

CTRL-S
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

search for text
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

CTRL-T
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

search same text again
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset 


\layout Subsection

Using the address book_3100_
\layout Standard

Although you may directly enter the addresses of recipients of your message
 into the different address fields (
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

To:
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Cc:
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

 and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Bcc:
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

 although the last two are optional and so might not appear), there is a
 more convenient way to do it using the address book.
 To insert an address fromyour address book you should type the first few
 letters of either the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

nick name
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 (or the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

alias
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

) for this address or the the first letters of the e-mail address and press
 <TAB> key or click on the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Expand
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 button.
 If there is only one possible expansion for the letters you have typed,
 Mahogany will automatically replace them with the corresponding full e-mail
 address.
 Other possible cases: either there are no matches at all and a message
 in the status line of the window will tell you so, or there are more than
 one match in which case you will be presented with a choice of all possible
 completions.
 
\layout Standard


\emph on 
Hint: 
\emph default 
if you press <TAB> immediately after the address expansion it will bring
 you to the next text entry zone and will not attempt the address expansion
 the second time.
\layout Standard

A special feature of the address expansion is the so-called 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

group extension
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

: if you type the first few letters of an address group name (see 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Address Book Editor
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 description for more about it) it will be replaced by the addresses of
 all the addresses in this group.
 So, for example, if you have a group called 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Friends
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 you may type 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

fri
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 in the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

To:
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

 text entry zone and after pressing <TAB> it will be replaced by the e-mail
 addresses of all your friends.
\layout Subsection

The Mail Composition Window_2100_
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{MailCompositionWindow}

\end_inset 

The composition window's appearance depends on your configuration settings
 (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{ComposePage}

\end_inset 

).
 Generally, it will at least show text entry fields to specify who to send
 the message to, for the subject and a large editing window below for the
 actual message itself.
 It also features an EXPAND button next to the address field, which allows
 you to lookup addresses in the currently loaded addressbooks.
 If you type in the beginning or a substring of a name, alias or email address
 and either press the expand button or the tabulator key, Mahogany will
 look up a list of matching addressbook entries and either expand it directly
 or prompt you with the matching choices.
 This works for the main address field (
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

To
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

) as well as for the carbon copy addresses (
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

CC
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

BCC
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

).
 If you specify an address in the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

CC
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 or 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

BCC
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 fields, these people will receive a copy of the message.
 The difference between them is that the list of addresses in 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

CC
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 is included in the message, while the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

BCC
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 (blind carbon copy) addresses will be suppressed in the message keeping
 them anonymous.
 If you enter an address like 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

#myfolder
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, Mahogany will interpret it as the name of a mailfolder and save a copy
 of the message to that folder (in this case 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

myfolder
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

).
 
\layout Subsection

The News Article Composition Window_2101_
\layout Standard

This window is essentially identical to the mail composition window (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{MailCompositionWindow}

\end_inset 

), but instead of specifying a mail address to send the message to, you
 can enter one or more newsgroups names (comma separated).
 The newsserver used depends on from where this window was opened, if it
 was opened while reading a specific newgroup, it will use the same newsserver
 that the newsgroup was read from, otherwise it will fall back to the setting
 in the global preferences.
\layout Section

Understanding program options
\layout Standard

One of the goals of the Mahogany project is to be as configurable as possible.
 Of course, it means that Mahogany has a lot of options - however we hope
 that it doesn't make the program more difficult to use because you have
 the complete liberty to ignore all options until you need to use them.
 Moreover, some program options are completely transparent to the user because
 they are automatically remembered by the program.
 All the other ones may be changed from the main options dialog which may
 be invoked from the main window toolbar or from the menu.
 Generally, Mahogany configuration settings are inherited in a logical fashion.
 The settings in the preferences dialog are the global default settings
 and can be overridden on a per-folder basis.
 Subfolders inherit from their parent folders.
 Currently there is no full GUI support for this, but the next release will
 have the full set of program options available on the per-folder basis.
 Currently you can already achieve this by editing the configuration file
 manually.
 Also, system administrators can provide other defaults in a global /etc/Mahogan
y.conf file (also found in /usr/etc, /usr/local/etc, /opt/etc, ...).
\layout Subsection

Automatically remembered options
\layout Standard

These options include the sizes and the positions of all windows, the texts
 of all prompts, the positions of splitters in the main program window and
 the other folder views as well as several other things.
 These options are special in that they do not appear in the options dialog
 and so can not be changed directly - instead Mahogany remembers them each
 time it is shut down, so when it is reopened it will be in exactly the
 same state as during the last run.
 Try to play with it: adjust the sizes of the main program window and the
 splitters in it as you like, exit Mahogany and restart it (this is for
 testing only, of course, you do not need to do it each time!) - you should
 see that the window reappears on the same position (although this might
 not work under some window managers), has the same size and is split in
 the same manner.
\layout Subsection

Other options
\layout Standard

All other options except those mentioned in the previous subsection can
 be changed from the program options dialog.
 This dialog has several pages which are described in more details below:
\layout Subsubsection

Identity page_4102_
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{IdentityPage}

\end_inset 

%%disabled!
\backslash 
begin{figure}{
\backslash 
htmlimage{scale=1}
\backslash 
centering
\backslash 
epsfig{file=pics/Identity.eps,width=0.6
\backslash 
textwidth}}
\backslash 
end{figure}
\layout Standard

Here several important settings are configured, so it is advised (as the
 program itself will tell you when it is run for the first time) to set
 them up before starting using Mahogany.
 These include your personal identity settings - see also your preferred
 mail and news servers which is configured from the network page (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{NetworkPage}

\end_inset 

).
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Username
\series default 

\newline 
This is used as (default) login name for the accounts which require one
 (POP3 or IMAP4) and also as the base for the return address unless it is
 overridden by explicit setting of the return address.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Hostname
\series default 
 
\newline 
This is used as the default hostname for your username.
 If you do not specify a return address, this must form a valid mail address
 when used together with your username.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Reply address
\series default 
 
\newline 
Here you can specify a return mail address where you want to receive mail
 and replies to your mails from other users.
 By using this you can hide your original (possibly 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

uglier
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

) return address.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Reply return address from To: field
\series default 

\newline 
If set, Mahogany will use the original 
\family typewriter 
To:
\family default 
 address field values for the 
\family typewriter 
Reply-To:
\family default 
 header entry of any message replies that you send.
 This makes sure that the same person sending you mail will always see the
 same mail address for you.
 It is especially useful, if you collect mail from several different incoming
 mail folders.
 An example: Someone sends you mail to 
\family typewriter 
John.Doe@mycompany.com
\family default 
.
 If you reply to this message, it will appear as coming from 
\family typewriter 
John.Doe@mycompany.com
\family default 
, even if you read this mail from home, on a machine called 
\family typewriter 
MyBox.fun.org
\family default 
.
 On the other hand, if someone sends you mail to 
\family typewriter 
MyAlias@writeme.com
\family default 
, your reply will carry that as a return address, so that person will never
 know about your 
\family typewriter 
mycompany.com
\family default 
 office address.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Personal name
\newline 

\series default 
 Your full personal name to be included in your address.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 

\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{UserLevel}

\end_inset 

User level
\series default 

\newline 
Setting it to advance will allow you more detailed configuration of Mahogany,
 allowing you to make changes to the configuration which might be confusing
 to a novice user.
 It's recommended that you first become familiar with the program before
 changing the value of this option.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{NetworkPage}

\end_inset 

%%disabled!
\backslash 
begin{figure}{
\backslash 
htmlimage{scale=1}
\backslash 
centering
\backslash 
epsfig{file=pics/Network.eps,width=0.6
\backslash 
textwidth}}
\backslash 
end{figure}
\layout Standard

This page allows you to configure the network-related settings.
 Please notice that the four server names (for POP3, IMAP4, SMTP and NNTP)
 are only the default values and that Mahogany can use as many different
 servers (in particular, POP3 and NNTP) as you wish - for this, it is just
 enough to change the server name when creating a new folder from the default
 value specified here.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
POP server
\newline 

\series default 
This is the default server for your POP3 mail folders.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
IMAP server
\newline 

\series default 
This is the default server for your IMAP mail folders.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
SMTP server
\series default 

\newline 
This is the server used for sending outgoing mail, please ask your system
 administrator if you don't know its name.
 This option is disabled if 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Use local mail transfer agent
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 is checked.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
NNTP server
\series default 

\newline 
This is the server used for reading USENET newsgroups and posting news articles.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
TCP Timeout Values
\series default 

\newline 
These timeouts are used for all accesses to remote servers.
 Generally it is a good idea to set them to small values to avoid unnecessary
 delays if something goes wrong.
 On the other hand, you want to make sure that they are long enough for
 slow connections, like for example through a modem line.
 If you get a lot of error messages about failed accesses to remote servers,
 you should try to increase these settings.
\begin_deeper 
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
TCP Open Timeout 
\series default 

\newline 
This setting decides after how many seconds the attempt to open a connection
 to a remote mail or newsserver will time out.
 I.e.
 if no connection can be made within this time interval, the request will
 fail.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
TCP Write Timeout 
\series default 

\newline 
If the attempt to write data to a remote server takes longer than this,
 it will fail.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
TCP Read Timeout 
\series default 

\newline 
If the attempt to read data from a remote server takes longer than this,
 it will fail.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
TCP Close Timeout 
\series default 

\newline 
If the attempt to close the connection to a remote server takes longer than
 this, it will fail.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
TCP Rsh Timeout 
\series default 

\newline 
If the attempt to open a remote shell connection (used for some mail operations)
 to a remote server takes longer than this, it will fail.
\end_deeper 
\layout Subsubsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{NewMailPage}

\end_inset 

New Mail Page_4110_
\layout Standard

This page looks slightly differently in the global preferences dialog and
 in the folder properties one as some of the settings here must be the same
 for all folders while the others can only be set for a specific folder.
 First here is the list of the settings which appear in the global dialog:
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Execute new mail command
\newline 

\series default 
You may specify a command to execute when new mail is received.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Play a sound on new mail
\newline 

\series default 
You can select a sound file to be played on new mail reception.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Show new mail notification
\newline 

\series default 
If this option is on, Mahogany will show a message about the new mail in
 the log window
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Ping folder interval
\newline 

\series default 
This setting specifies how often should the currently opened folder(s) be
 updated.
 It is typically smaller than the poll interval below because it is faster
 to check an already opened folder, especially when it is a remote folder.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Poll interval
\newline 

\series default 
How often should Mahogany update the mail folders which it monitors in the
 background
\layout Standard

In addition to these settings, the folder 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

New Mail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 properties page also proposes you the following settings:
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Configure filters
\newline 

\series default 
This button gives you access to the filters dialog.
 Please see the corresponding manual section (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{Filters}

\end_inset 

) for more details
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Collect new mail from this folder
\newline 

\series default 
If checked, all new mail detected in this folder (either automatically or
 manually) not handled by the filters will be copied or moved to another
 folder, normally the central 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

New Mail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 folder.
 You may change the destination folder if you are in advanced user mode.
 Of course, copying the new mail to a local folder from remote server may
 be time consuming so it may be worth to set the filters deleting the unwanted
 spam messages for this folder to avoid downloading them.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Leave mail in this folder
\newline 

\series default 
If this checkbox is checked, the new mail will be copied to the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

New Mail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 folder and also left in this folder.
 Otherwise it will be moved to 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

New Mail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 and deleted from this folder.
\newline 
This option is often called 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Leave mail on server
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 in the other email clients.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Permanently monitor this folder
\newline 

\series default 
Choose this to tell Mahogany to poll this folder in the background periodically
 (the interval may be set below).
 If you leave it unset, you can still trigger new mail detection (including
 applying filters to it and/or downloading it from server) by either opening
 the folder or updating it (
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Open
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Update
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 commands in the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Folder
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 manu respectively)
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Poll folder at startup
\newline 

\series default 
If on, Mahogany will check for new mail in this folder immediately after
 the program launch.
 Of course, if you have many permanently monitored folders this can make
 the program startup quite slow.
\layout Subsubsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{ComposePage}

\end_inset 

Compose Page_4100_ 
\layout Standard

On this page you may configure different settings which control the behaviour
 of the message composer (it is also used when replying or forwarding mail
 messages, not only for composing the new ones).
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Save sent messages
\series default 

\newline 
If enabled, Mahogany will keep a copy of each message you send.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Folder file for sent messages
\series default 

\newline 
Where you want Mahogany to save the copies of sent messages.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Wrap margin
\series default 

\newline 
If set to a value greater than zero, the message editor will wrap lines
 for you at that margin.
 It is recommended to set it at number less than 75, otherwise the lines
 in your mail messages might become too long to be conveniently read.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Reply string in subject
\series default 

\newline 
The prefix for subject lines in message replies, usually set to 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Re:
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Collapse reply marker
\series default 

\newline 
Mahogany can collapse multiple reply markers (such as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Re:
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

) into one in three different ways:
\begin_deeper 
\layout Itemize

no : do not collapse reply markers
\layout Itemize

collapse : collapse them into one
\layout Itemize

count : collapse them into one and add a counter for the reply level, such
 as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Re[2]:
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\end_deeper 
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Quote character
\series default 

\newline 
The text inserted before each line of the quoted message when replying.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Use signature
\series default 

\newline 
If enabled, Mahogany will append the contents of your signature file to
 each message sent.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Use signature separator
\newline 

\series default 
If enabled, your signature will be separated from the text with two dashes.
 This is a common Internet/Usenet convention.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Use XFace
\series default 

\newline 
XFaces are small black and white bitmaps which can be added to the message
 header to identify the sender.
 Mahogany will recognise and display them if enabled.
 It will also attempt to load your XFace from the file specified and send
 it with messages you write.
 If you do not have your own XFace file, Mahogany will use its own default
 XFace.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
XFace file
\series default 

\newline 
This file must contain a 48x48 pixel black and white image.
 Most image formats should be recognised, XPM is recommended.
 If the file cannot be loaded, the default XFace will be substituted.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Mail alias substring expansion
\series default 

\newline 
If enabled, the EXPAND button will search the mail address databases using
 substring search rather than just comparing the text against the beginning
 of addresses and aliases.
 Produces many more matches than the default search and might take a bit
 longer.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Font family, font sizes, foreground colour, background colour
\series default 

\newline 
These settings determine the appearance of the composition window's message
 editor.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Configure headers
\series default 

\newline 
Allows you to specify default values for the To:, CC: and BCC: fields and
 whether to display them in the compose view or not.
 Hint: you may want to configure the folder where you collect all messages
 from some person (or the mailing list) to have this persons reply address
 default value for the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

To:
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

 field.
\newline 

\newline 
The dialog shown will also allow you to edit the custom headers for outgoing
 messages (i.e.
 add arbitrary additional headers) if the user level (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{UserLevel}

\end_inset 

) is set to 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Advanced
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
\layout Subsubsection

Folders page_4107_
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Folders to open on startup
\series default 

\newline 
Mahogany will open these folders on program startup.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Folder opened in main frame
\series default 

\newline 
This specifies the folder to open in the main frame on program startup.
 It will be automatically remembered each time you exit Mahogany.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Poll for new mail delay
\series default 

\newline 
Mahogany will check all incoming mailboxes for new mail.
 Specify the time between checks in seconds here.
 Notice that each check causes a short delay as Mahogany polls the folders,
 set it to a longer value to reduce the annoying screen updates, set it
 to a shorter value if you care about receiving your new mail with little
 delay.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Ping/check folder interval in seconds
\newline 

\series default 
Mahogany checks periodically whether the opened folders are still 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

alive
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 (a folder may become dead if, for example, the remote server goes down
 or the network link fails).
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Automatically select first message in viewer
\series default 

\newline 
If enabled, Mahogany will automatically select and display the first message
 in the message viewer whenever you open a folder.
 This can be inconvenient if you want to just look at headers without downloadin
g messages over a slow link.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Threshold for displaying progress dialog
\series default 

\newline 
Mahogany will display progress dialogs when parsing mail folders or querying
 servers.
 If the number of messages is less than this threshold value, the progress
 dialog will be suppressed - play with this setting and set it to the value
 which doesn't show the progress dialogs which disappear too quickly, but
 still shows them if the operation lasts a long time.
\layout Subsubsection

Python page_4103_
\layout Standard

(only if you have a Python-enabled version of Mahogany)
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{PythonOptions}

\end_inset 


\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Enable Python
\series default 

\newline 
Enables the built-in python interpreter which can be used to extend Mahogany.
 It is not essential for normal operation, but if you want to do unusual
 things, python gives you the power to do practically anything you want
 with the program.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Python Path
\series default 

\newline 
Where to search for python files.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Startup script
\series default 

\newline 
The name of a python script which will be executed at program startup.
\layout Paragraph

Callbacks
\layout Standard

Callbacks are python functions that can be called from different parts of
 Mahogany's code.
 See the Scripting and Extending chapter (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{Scripting}

\end_inset 

) and the Hacker's guide (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{HackersGuide}

\end_inset 

) for more information on this.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Folder open callback
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Folder update callback
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Folder expunge callback
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Flag set callback
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Flag clear callback
\layout Subsubsection

Message Viewer_4101_
\layout Itemize


\series bold 

\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{MessageViewerPage}

\end_inset 

Preview message when selected
\newline 

\series default 
 When this option is set, any message that gets selected in the list of
 messages will get pre-viewed automatically.
 If using a modem connection, it makes sense to disable it, so messages
 will only get loaded and pre-viewed when double-clicked upon or when the
 'V' key is pressed.
 By default, this is enabled, so that clicking on a message or pressing
 the spacebar to select it, will also pre-view it.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Font family, font size, foreground colour, background colour, colour for
 URLs, colour for header names, colour for header values
\series default 

\newline 
These settings control the appearance of messages in the message viewer
 window.
 Mahogany will detect URLs embedded in messages and by using a different
 colour for them, can highlight them.
 When the user clicks on a URL, it will be opened in an external browser.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Inline graphics
\series default 

\newline 
If enabled, Mahogany will display images included as MIME content in the
 message window.
 If disabled, images will be represented by a filetype icon like any other
 MIME content.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Conversion graphics format
\series default 

\newline 
Mahogany uses an external conversion program (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{HelpersPage}

\end_inset 

) for image formats which it does not support natively.
 Here you can chose one of the natively supported formats to use for the
 conversion.
 At present, the most reliable format appears to be XPM.
 If configured properly and all libraries are available, Mahogany should
 support XPM, PNG, JPEG and BMP.
 Notice that XPM files are extremely large, so you might want to change
 this setting to one of the other formats.
 
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Support special fax mailers
\series default 

\newline 
This enables support for domains sending faxes by email, such as the 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
htmladdnormallinkfoot{EFAX}{http://www.efax.com/}
\latex default 
 fax to email gateway.
 Faxes are sent as MIME attachments and need treatment different from normal
 images.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Domains sending faxes
\series default 

\newline 
This is a colon-separated list of domains sending faxes.
 All IMAGE/TIFF or APPLICATION/OCTET-STREAM MIME content in mails coming
 from these domains will be treated as TIFF-G3 faxes.
 Note that the strings in this field do not need to be real domain names
 but are substrings looked for in the sender's email address.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Maximum size of message
\series default 

\newline 
If you attempt to view a message larger than this limit, Mahogany will prompt
 you for confirmation.
 This is to prevent you from accidentally downloading large messages over
 a slow remote connection.
 Setting it to 0 will disable this.
 The limit is not applied to mailfolder files.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Maximum number of messages
\series default 

\newline 
If you open a folder with more than this limit of messages, Mahogany will
 ask you whether you want to limit the amount of messages downloaded (or
 partially downloaded).
 Again, this is to prevent you from accidentally downloading huge numbers
 of messages over a slow remote connection.
 Setting it to 0 disables this.
 It does not apply to mailfolder files.
 Also, for NNTP connections, this might be triggered although there could
 be less messages in the newsgroup, as at the time of testing the number
 of unread messages is not know yet.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Configure headers to show
\series default 

\newline 
This allows you to chose from a list of the most commonly viewed header
 lines, which you would like to display together with the message contents.
 By default, To:, From:, Subject: and Date: are shown.
 Note that you can always view the complete header information or the raw
 message text, no matter what you chose here.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Configure Date Format
\series default 

\newline 
This will pop up a sub-dialog (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{date_format_dialog}

\end_inset 

) for setting the format for displaying dates.
\layout Subsubsection

Addressbook page_4104_
\layout Standard

Mahogany may automatically remember all addresses from all e-mail messages
 you receive (actually, only those which you read).
 This is called 
\emph on 
address autocollection 
\emph default 
and, as almost any other feature of Mahogany can be turned on and off as
 desired.
 In this page you may choose whether you want to use this feature at all
 (it is on by default) and, if so, where should be the autocollected addresses
 be put and other settings.
 See the Addressbook section (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{AddressDatabase}

\end_inset 

) for more information on Mahogany's built-in addressbook.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Autocollect addresses
\series default 

\newline 
You may choose 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

No
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 to disable autocollecting addresses completely, or choose 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Yes
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 to always autocollect them.
 The remaining option, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Ask
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, means that you will be presented with a message box each time an address
 is about to be autocollected.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Address book to use
\series default 

\newline 
You may enter the path of the address book to use for autocollected addresses.
 Although you may use any address book for this, it is probably better to
 have a special address book for all autocollected addresses.
 If the path name given here is an absolute one, it is used as is.
 Otherwise, it is considered to be relative to your Mahogany directory.
 For example, the default for this option is 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

autocollect.adb
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 and so the default autocollect book will be created in 
\noun on 

\newline 
$HOME/.M/autocollect.adb
\noun default 
 
\noun on 

\newline 

\noun default 
under Unix.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Ignore addresses without names
\series default 

\newline 
You may with to autocollect only addresses which have a full name - in this
 case you should check this option.
 If it is off and the address has no name, the first part of e-mail address
 (the one preceding the '@' symbol) will be used instead of the name.
\layout Standard

In addition to its own built-in addressbook format, Mahogany also supports
 the addressbook files of the BBDB addressbook used with Emacs (see 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{BBDB}

\end_inset 

).
 Some settings can be set here which apply only to the BBDB addressbook
 support:
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Ignore entries without names
\series default 

\newline 
BBDB can store entries which have only an e-mail address with them, but
 no name.
 If you set this option, Mahogany will discard such entries.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Generate unique aliases
\series default 

\newline 
Setting this option allows Mahogany to ensure that all aliases are unique.
 If two entries have the same alias, one of them will be modified to distinguish
 them.
 This is especially useful in conjuction with the following option.
 If this option is set, reading in of BBDB addressbooks is slowed down considera
bly.
 However, setting it once, then saving the addressbook and disabling it,
 will make sure that all aliases are unique without slowing down subsequent
 loading of the addressbook the next time it is used.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Name for nameless entries
\series default 

\newline 
If Mahogany finds entries without a name and is not set to ignore it, this
 name will be used for such entries.
 It can be combined with the option to generate unique aliases.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Save on exit
\series default 

\newline 
As saving BBDB addressbook can potentially lead to some loss of information
 in the original database file (BBDB and Mahogany support different fields),
 you can choose whether you want Mahogany to automatically save the data
 on exit or ask you for confirmation.
 Read section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{BBDB}

\end_inset 

 for more details about how BBDB and Mahogany differ in interpreting the
 database.
\layout Paragraph

Helpers_4106_
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{HelpersPage}

\end_inset 

On this page you can customise which external helper applications Mahogany
 uses for different action that it does not perform itself.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Open URLs with
\series default 

\newline 
Mahogany will use the program listed here to open URLs embedded in email
 messages.
 If you want to use Lynx as your Web browser you should prefix it with 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

xterm -e
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 under Unix in order to open Lynx in a separate window.
 For example, you may use 
\noun on 
xterm -t Lynx -e Lynx.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
URL browser is Netscape
\series default 

\newline 
If the browser used to open URLs belongs to the family of Netscape programs,
 tick this box.
 Instead of calling a new browser each time, Mahogany will tell the already
 running Netscape process to load the new URL.
 Also, don't forget to clear it if you use another browser - otherwise it
 will fail to start up.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Help viewer
\series default 

\newline 
The program listed here will be used to view the online help system in HTML
 format.
 Any simple HTML viewer can be used here.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Help viewer is Netscape
\series default 

\newline 
Just like the option for the URL browser, this will take talk to an already
 running Netscape process instead of opening a new one each time.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
External editor
\newline 

\series default 
This is the external editor which will be invoked if you choose 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

External editor...
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 from the compose view menu.
 You should use the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

%s
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 characters to indicate the place where the file name will be inserted in
 the command line (if you don't do it, an implicit 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

%s
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 will be added to the end of the string).
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
New Mail Command
\series default 

\newline 
The line in this field will be executed whenever Mahogany receives new mail.
 This can be used to play a sound to notify the user of incoming messages,
 or do something else to alert him.
\layout Subsubsection

Miscellaneous_4105_
\layout Standard

All options which don't fit in any other pages are collected here.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Show log window
\newline 

\series default 
If this option is on, the log window showing all program messages will be
 displayed during program execution.
 It is advised to leave it on because the log messages (which can be saved
 to a file from the log window menu) can be valuable for the bug reports.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Debug server and mail folder access
\newline 

\series default 
This is another troubleshooting option: please turn it on if you experience
 any mail-related problems (either sending or receiving).
 It slows down the program a lot but allows to see what exactly is going
 on between the client and the server and this can be of great help sometimes.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Splash screen on startup
\newline 

\series default 
If this option is on, a splash screen is shown on startup.
 It will go away when clicked with the mouse or when a given delay (see
 the next item) expires.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Splash screen delay
\newline 

\series default 
The delay after which the splash screen disappears.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Autosave delay
\newline 

\series default 
This option allows to automatically save all program settings (but not messages
 being composed so far) each time the given delay (in seconds) passes.
 It can be disabled by setting the delay to 0, but it is advised to leave
 it enabled - so that your changes to the program configuration will be
 always saved.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Confirm exit
\newline 

\series default 
If this options is on, you will be asked whether you want to leave the program
 each time before exiting.
 The checkbox on the message box with this question can be used to change
 the value of this option as well.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Click folder to open
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{clicktoopen}

\end_inset 


\newline 

\series default 
If this option is on, it is enough to select (for example, by clicking on
 it) a folder in the folder tree control in the main window to open it in
 the integrated folder view.
 Double clicking the folder or choosing 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Open
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 from the popup menu will open folder in a separate window.
 This approach has a drawback of being a little slow with either very big
 folders or on slow machines/network connections, so an alternative way
 is to uncheck this checkbox.
 Then double clicking a folder will be needed to open it in the integrated
 folder view - while 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Open
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 popup menu item will still open it in a separate window.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Format for the date
\newline 

\series default 
This controls how the dates are shown in the folder view window.
 The string here has the same format as an argument to strftime(), on a
 Unix system you may execute 
\noun on 
man strftime 
\noun default 
to see them all.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Show new mail notification
\newline 

\series default 
If this option is on, a message box will be shown each time new messages
 are received.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Path where to find AFM files
\series default 
 (Unix version only)
\newline 
To properly scale printing under Unix, Mahogany needs access to a set of
 AFM files.
 The searchpath where to look for them can be modified here.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Remote configuration synchronisation settings
\newline 

\series default 
Please refer to the section below for a detailed explanation.
\layout Subsection

Remote configuration synchronisation_4109_
\layout Standard

Mahogany can automatically save a subset of its configuration settings in
 a mailbox at program exit and automatically retrieve that information the
 next time it is started up.
 This option becomes useful if you are using the program from different
 systems, e.g.
 if sometimes from the office and some other times from home over a dialup
 link.
 In this case, you can save some settings in a special IMAP folder and tell
 the program to use this for some of the settings.
 Like that, you can share the program settings no matter from where you
 run Mahogany and you do not need to manually adjust both configurations.
\layout Standard

To use this option, first create a folder on an IMAP server.
 Do not use a POP3 server, as the program cannot store information via POP3,
 IMAP is required for this to work.
 Then, activate the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Sync options with remote server
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 setting and choose which settings you wish to share.
 Currently supported are:
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Sync Filter Rules
\series default 
: This keeps the global list of all filter rules synchronised via the IMAP
 folder.
 Very useful if you want to use the same set of filter rules no matter where
 you run Mahogany.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Sync Identities
\series default 
: This keeps the list of available identity settings synchronised.
 Be careful: some things such as server settings might cause problems if
 they are used on a machine with different network settings.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
Sync part of the folder tree
\series default 
: This allows you to synchronise a complete sub-tree of the mailbox/folder
 tree.
 Activate this and pick a group of folders from the tree (Click on the [>>]
 button to choose one.) and this tree of folders will be available no matter
 from where you run Mahogany.
 Note: this only makes sense if the folder group contains networked folders
 which are accessible from both machines.
 It synchronises configuration information, not folder contents.
 So you cannot access a mailbox file residing on one machine via this mechanism,
 but you can share configuration entries for remote mailboxes, such as IMAP,
 POP3 or newsgroups.
\layout Subsection

Some Other Dialogs You May Encounter
\layout Subsubsection

Date Format_4220_
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{date_format_dialog}

\end_inset 

The dates of messages for the list of headers can be displayed in a format
 of your choice.
 The same format is used for inserting the current date in templates when
 writing messages.
 The format of the date is controlled by a list of format specifiers (as
 accepted by the 
\family typewriter 
strftime()
\family default 
 function in the c-library).
 Most of the available format specifiers are available via a little popup
 menu which appears if you press the right-mouse button in the input field.
\layout Paragraph

Display time in GMT/UST
\layout Standard

If you tick this box, all times will be displayed in Greenwich Mean Time
 (= Universal Standard Time) rather than local time.
 If not checked, all dates and times will be displayed in your own timezone.
 
\shape italic 
Note that the time and date displayed is not the local time in the sender's
 timezone but the time it was in your local timezone when the message was
 sent.
\layout Subsubsection

Message Sorting Dialog_4210_
\layout Standard

Here you can choose the criteria for sorting mailfolder listings.
 If you want to use message score as a sort criterium, you need to have
 a plugin module loaded which provides the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Scoring
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 interface.
 At time of writing no such plugin is available, it will appear soon, though.
\layout Paragraph

Use Threading
\layout Standard

If you tick this box, all messages will be threaded, i.e.
 sorted in hierarchical orders, with replies following earlier messages
 in the same discussion thread.
 Very useful for newsgroups.
 -- Currently not yet implemented! --
\layout Paragraph

Re-Sort on status change
\layout Standard

The effect of this option feels a bit strange at first and you might not
 like it.
 If selected, the messages will be re-sorted each time the status of a message
 changes.
 If you sort messages by message status and delete a message, it will immediatel
y drop to the bottom of the list.
 Useful to always maintain a strict sorting order, but can be confusing.
\layout Subsection

Mahogany Plugin Modules
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{Modules}

\end_inset 

Mahogany can load plugin modules at runtime to extend its functionality.
 Currently we are working on plugins to supply PGP/GPG encryption support
 and a scoring engine for sorting mailfolder listings.
 A plugin to use IBM's ViaVoice will be started work on as soon as the Debian/Li
nux 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Potato
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 release becomes stable.
\layout Standard

Generally, if you want to write an extension for Mahogany without using
 Python (which we hope to turn into a plugin, too, soon), you can do that
 very easily by writing it as a plugin module.
 Get in touch with the developers and we will show you how to do so.
\layout Subsubsection

The Plugin Module Configuration Dialog_4200_
\layout Standard

This dialog allows you to decide which plugins get loaded at program start.
 At present, modules don't get loaded/unloaded at runtime, so you need to
 restart Mahogany for these options to take effect.
 On the top left you see a list of all modules that Mahogany has found in
 either the global 
\family typewriter 
modules
\family default 
 directory or in your local directory (
\family typewriter 
$HOME/.M/modules/
\family default 
).
 The window below shows some information about the module currently selected
 in the list, such as the name, author, a description of what it does and
 the name of the interface it provides.
 The interface would e.g.
 be 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Scoring
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 for the plugin providing the functionality for scoring messages and is
 used by the program to find the right plugin for a given operation.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Any changes to the plugin module settings will only take effect after you
 re-started Mahogany!
\layout Section

The Address Database_3000_
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{AddressDatabase}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Mahogany has a built-in address book system with flexible support for different
 addressbook formats.
 It can easily expanded to handle other programs' file formats and at present
 supports two formats, it's own ADB format (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{ADB}

\end_inset 

) and (X)Emacs' BBDB (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{ADB}

\end_inset 

) address book format.
 Generally the address books are ordered hierarchical, with the possibility
 to order entries in groups and sub-groups in a tree-like fashion.
 Alias expansion is configurable and also handles group names, to expand
 to the full list of email addresses within that given group.
\layout Subsection

The native Address Book _3001_
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{ADB}

\end_inset 

This is Mahogany's own address book format, offering you the maximum set
 of functionality supported by the address book editor.
 It offers hierarchical grouping of address entries and it also the default
 address book format used by the address auto-collection mechanisms, which
 uses different groups for address entries collected from different mail
 folders.
\layout Subsection

The Address Book Editor_3200_
\layout Standard

To edit the address book, open the address book editor.
 If the book is already present in the address book tree on the left side
 of the window, you may expand it (and any subgroups it might have) and
 start editing immediately.
 If not, you must first add it to the tree by choosing 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

New..
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 from the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Book
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 submenu or using the corresponding toolbar button.
\layout Standard

Generally speaking, there are several ways to perform the same action in
 the address book editor:
\layout Enumerate

use the menus: the commands for creating and deleting address book entries
 are in the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Edit
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 menu, the corresponding commands for the address books - in 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Book
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 one.
\layout Enumerate

use the toolbar: this may be more convenient because, depending on the current
 position of the selected item in the tree it will propose to create either
 an address book or an entry.
\layout Enumerate

use keyboard: <INSERT> key creates a new entry or address book if the current
 selection is the root of the tree, <DELETE> deletes an item and <Alt-ENTER>
 brings up the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Properties
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 dialog.
\layout Standard

To edit the entry, simply select it in the tree.
 The data associated to it is spread over several notebook pages - select
 the one which contains the field you want to change and change it.
 If you want to undo your changes, simply press 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Cancel
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 at any moment - however, this only works while you're editing the entry.
 As soon as you pass to another one, all previous changes are saved and
 cannot be undone any more.
 The changes are saved automatically when you select another entry or close
 the address book editor - there is no special 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Save
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 button.
\layout Standard

To quickly move in the address book tree you may use either the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Find
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 or 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Go to
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 dialogs (both available in the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Find
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 menu).
 The first dialog allows you to find the entry by its contents while the
 second one allows you to quickly go to the entry (in thecurrent address
 book only) if you know its nickname.
 In the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Find
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 dialog you have several options to configure the search: it may be either
 case sensitive or not (should 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

mike
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 match 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Mike
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

?) and try to find only the whole string or just the substring of it (should
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

mik
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 match 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Mike
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

?).
 You may also choose among which fields should the search be done.
 You may choose as many fields as you like (possibly all of them) but you
 must choose at least one.
\layout Standard

After you used the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Find
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 dialog once, you may choose the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Find next
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 menu item to go to the next address book entry matching your search criterium
 (notice that a message in the status bar will notify you about how many
 matches, if any, were found).
 Keep hitting 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Find next
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 until the search wraps to the beginning (again, watch the status line for
 the message) or until you find the entry you're looking for.
\layout Standard

You may import your existing address book file by choosing the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Import book...
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

entry from the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Book
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 menu - this will open the address book import dialog proposing you to select
 the 
\layout Subsection

Support for BBDB Address Books_3002_
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{BBDB}

\end_inset 

Mahogany supports reading and writing of BBDB address book files.
 BBDB is the Big Brother DataBase used with the Emacs family of editors.
 If you have an existing address book file, usually called 
\family typewriter 
.bbdb
\family default 
, you can load it into Mahogany and use it.
 This is especially useful if you have an existing file with auto-collected
 email addresses that you want to continue to use.
\layout Paragraph

Caution:
\layout Standard

The BBDB address book format supports different fields than Mahogany's native
 database.
 When reading a BBDB file, Mahogany will only read the first two addresses
 and telephone numbers and assign them to the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Home
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Work
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 addresses and phone numbers.
 All additional addresses and phone numbers, the AKA list and the comments
 will get lost.
 Mahogany will only save the information displayed in the address editor
 window.
 Currently saving of phone numbers to BBDB files is unsupported as it uses
 a different format from Mahogany.
 
\shape italic 
Therefore, reading a BBDB file and saving it back to disk may lead to a
 loss of information!
\layout Subsection

Support for Palm Address Books
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{PalmADB}

\end_inset 


\emph on 
Mahogany
\emph default 
 does currently support reading of Palm Addressbooks (referring to a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Palm
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 we mean the handheld organizer Palm Pilot running PalmOS).
 For being able to do that it is required to include the PalmOS-Module (see
 below).
 The support of Palm Addressbooks is not yet fully implemented, as so far
 it is only possible to download the addresses from the Palm and to display
 them.
 Changing and uploading changed/new addresses to the Palm is something we
 plan to add in the next release.
\layout Standard

To display the Palm addressbook, create a new addressbook of type 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

PalmOS
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 You will be asked to put your Palm into the cradle and to push the HotSync-butt
on.
 After the download the addressbook is accessible in read-only mode.
 Restarting 
\emph on 
Mahogany
\emph default 
 requires to download the addressbook again.
\layout Chapter

Scripting and Extending 
\shape slanted 
Mahogany
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{Scripting}

\end_inset 


\layout Section

Python Scripting
\layout Subsection

Introduction
\layout Standard


\shape slanted 
Mahogany 
\shape default 
has an embedded Python interpreter, if compiled with Python support enabled.
 Python is an object-oriented script language which can be used to write
 scripts to be executed by 
\shape slanted 
Mahogany
\shape default 
 or even to extend 
\shape slanted 
Mahogany
\shape default 
's functionality.
 Python scripts have full access to all internal Mahogany data structures
 and objects.
\layout Standard

A number of user definable callback functions are available.
 Scripts have access to most objects living in Mahogany.
 Scripting can be disabled in the Preferences dialog (see 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{PythonOptions}

\end_inset 

).
\layout Standard

Currently the scripting support is quite basic.
 If you are interested in writing scripts and need additional callbacks
 or support for them within 
\shape slanted 
Mahogany
\shape default 
, please get in touch with the developers who will be happy to add it.
\layout Subsection

Initialisation 
\layout Standard

At startup, 
\shape slanted 
Mahogany
\shape default 
 will load a file called 
\family typewriter 
Minit.py
\family default 
 and call the 
\family typewriter 
Minit()
\family default 
 function defined in there, without any arguments.
\layout Subsection

Callback Functions (Hooks)
\layout Standard

There are a number of callbacks available which will be called from different
 places within 
\shape slanted 
Mahogany
\shape default 
.
 These are defined in the header file 
\family typewriter 
Mcallbacks.h
\family default 
.
 The documentation of these callbacks can be found in the Classes documentation(
\latex latex 

\backslash 
htmladdnormallinkfoot{Classes online docs}{classes/index.html}
\latex default 
).
 All of these callbacks are called with at least two arguments:
\layout Enumerate

The name of the hook for which the function got called, e.g.
 
\family typewriter 
FolderOpenHook
\layout Enumerate

A pointer to the object from which it was called.
 E.g.
 for 
\family typewriter 
FolderOpenHook
\family default 
, this would be a pointer to a 
\family typewriter 
MailFolder
\family default 
 object.
 This object does not carry a useable type with it and needs to be converted
 in the callback, e.g.
 if the argument is called 
\family typewriter 
arg
\family default 
 and the object is a 
\family typewriter 
MailFolder
\family default 
, the object must either be used as 
\family typewriter 
MailFolder.MailFolder(arg)
\family default 
 or be converted as 
\family typewriter 
mf = MailFolder.MailFolder(arg)
\family default 
.
 
\layout Enumerate

Some callbacks have a third argument.
 This is either a single value or a tuple holding several values.
\layout Subsection

Namespaces
\layout Standard

To avoid repeatedly typing in the name of the module (
\family typewriter 
MailFolder
\family default 
 in this case), it can be imported into the global namespace with 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\family typewriter 
from\SpecialChar ~
MailFolder\SpecialChar ~
import\SpecialChar ~
*
\family default 

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 By default modules are not imported into the global namespace and must
 be explicitly named.
\layout Subsection

List of Callbacks
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset  Tabular
<lyxtabular version="2" rows="11" columns="5">
<features rotate="false" islongtable="false" endhead="0" endfirsthead="0" endfoot="0" endlastfoot="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="false" width="" special="">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="false" width="" special="">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="false" width="" special="">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="false" width="" special="">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="true" width="" special="">
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

0 8 1 0 0 0 00 8 1 0 0 0 0Callback Name
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Object Type
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Additional Arguments/Types
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Return Value
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Documentation
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

FolderOpenHook
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

MailFolder
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

void
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Called after a folder has been opened.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

FolderUpdateHook
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

MailFolder
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

void
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Called after a folder has been updated.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

FolderSetMessageFlag
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

MailFolder
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

(long) index of message
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

1 if changing flags is ok,0 otherwise
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Called before changing flags for a message.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

(string)name of flag
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

FolderClearMessageFlag
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

MailFolder
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

(long) index of message
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

1 if changing flags is ok,0 otherwise
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Called before changing flags for a message.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

(string) name of flag
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

FolderExpungeHook
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

MailFolder
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

1 to expunge, 0 to abort
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Called before expunging messages.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

FolderNewMailHook
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

MailFolder
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

1 to suppress default message, 0 else
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Called when new mail arrived in folder.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

GlobalNewMailHook
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

mApplication
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

(string) sender of mail
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

1 to suppress default message, 0 else
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Called when new mail arrived anywhere.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

(string) subject of mail
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset 


\layout Subsection

Supported Classes
\layout Standard

Python has access to Mahogany's internal class hierarchy.
 At present we supply interface definitions and Python modules for only
 a small number of classes, however if there is need for more classes being
 supported, we can easily extend the list - please ask us if you want more
 support!
\layout Standard

Some automatically generated documentation of the Python interface to Mahogany
 classes can be found in the 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
htmladdnormallinkfoot{doc/Python directory}{../Python/}
\latex default 
.
 Documentation about all classes, including those not available to Python,
 can be found in the 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
htmladdnormallinkfoot{doc/classes directory}{../classes/}
\latex default 
.
\layout Section

Plugins
\layout Subsection

Introduction
\layout Standard

Starting with release 0.5, 
\emph on 
Mahogany
\emph default 
 allows the use of plugins (modules).
 This allows for an easy and comfortable way to enlarge 
\emph on 
Mahogany
\emph default 
´s functionality.
 These modules can be loaded at runtime and do not need to be part of the
 main executable.
\layout Subsection

The Filters Module
\layout Standard

This module provides a filtering language for Mahogany.
 It allows you to have Mahogany look at different message properties, such
 as message contents, size or header lines and execute arbitrary action
 on them.
 The most common use would be to sort mails from different mailing lists
 in corresponding mailfolders, to reduce the number of messages in your
 main incoming mailbox.
 Filters can be specified in three possible ways:
\layout Itemize

You can use the filters dialog.
 This is the most convenient and best supported option.
\layout Itemize

You can write them by hand, using a simple programming language remotely
 similar to 'C', and put the filtering rules directly into the Mahogany
 configuration file or registry.
\layout Itemize

You can write complex rules yourself, save them to a file and tell Mahogany
 to read the rules from that file.
\layout Standard

The normal way to set up filters is to specify them in the filters dialog
 (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{FiltersDialog}

\end_inset 

) and then tell Mahogany folder which of the filter rules to use for the
 individual folders with athe folder filters dialog (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{FolderFiltersDialog}

\end_inset 

).
\layout Subsubsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{FiltersDialog}

\end_inset 

The Filters Dialog_4260_
\layout Standard

This dialog allows you to define any number of filter rules available to
 Mahogany.
 In a seaparate dialog (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{FolderFiltersDialog}

\end_inset 

) you can then pick any rule from the list and assign it to a folder.
 As you can have different sets of rules for each folder and might want
 to share rules for some folders, this dialog simply sets up rules and you
 can later specify for which folders to use them.
 When editing or adding a new filter rule, you will get to the following
 dialog:
\layout Subsubsection

The Filter-Rule Dialog_4261_
\layout Standard

This dialog allows you to set up or edit an individual filtering rule, it
 contains of the following components:
\layout Itemize

The rule name, in the text entry field at the very top.
 This name is only to help you remember what the rule does and will appear
 in the list of rules in the main Filters Dialog, but is without any further
 significance.
\layout Itemize

Underneath the name, you find the text 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

If Message...
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 followed by at least one row of conditioncontrols.
\layout Itemize

Under the condition controls you find the text 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Then do this:
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

 followed by some action controls.
\layout Standard

You can add more pattern matching controls by pressing the [More] button,
 and you can delete the last pattern matching rule by pressing the [Less]
 button.
 The number of actions to execute is fixed to one.
\layout Standard

You can use several condition and connect them via logical AND and OR, optionall
y negating them by ticking the [Not] box.
 The following conditions can be tested for at present:
\layout Itemize

Always - this rule will always be executed
\layout Itemize

Contains - check if the text next to it is contained in the message component
 selected
\layout Itemize

Match - check if the message component selected is exactly this text (case
 independent)
\layout Itemize

Match Case - check if the message compent selected is exactly this text
 (case dependent)
\layout Itemize

Match RegExp - check if the message compent selected matches the regular
 expression specified
\layout Itemize

Larger Than - check if the message is larger than this in KByte
\layout Itemize

Smaller Than - check if the message is smaller than this in KByte
\layout Itemize

Older Than - check if the message is older than this many days
\layout Itemize

Newer Than - check if the message is newer than this many days
\layout Itemize

Is SPAM - check if the message originates from a system blacklisted as sending
 unsolicited emails (SPAM).
 
\layout Itemize

Python - execute the text in the box in the built-in Python interpreter
 and proceed if it returns a non-0 result.
\layout Standard

The possible actions which can be performed, are:
\layout Itemize

Delete - deletes the message
\layout Itemize

Copy to - copies the message to the folder specified
\layout Itemize

Move to - moves the message to the folder specified
\layout Itemize

Expunge - expunge all messages in this folder
\layout Itemize

MessageBox - open a message box dialog with the text specified
\layout Itemize

LogEntry - add the text specified to the log window
\layout Itemize

Python - execute the text specified in the built-in Python interpreter
\layout Standard

If you are not using a Trash folder, it is a good idea to add a rule at
 the end of the list of filtering rules, that always expunges all messages.
 For testing filters, you can leave that rule disabled, an all messages
 will get treated and marked as deleted, but stay around.
 Only when expunge is executed, will they really disappear in the original
 mailbox.
 Notice, if you are using a Trash folder, this does not apply, as messages
 won't be marked as deleted but moved straight to Trash.
\layout Subsubsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{FolderFiltersDialog}

\end_inset 

The Folder Filters dialog_4262_
\layout Standard

This dialog allows you to assign filter rules to a folder.
 You can pick them from the set of existing filter rules (set up via the
 Filters Dialog (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{FiltersDialog}

\end_inset 

)) and change the order of the rules.
 The listbox on the left lists the existing filtering rules for the currently
 selected folder in the order in which they are executed.
 You can use the buttons to change the order or rules.
 You can also activate/deactivate rules by clicking on the litte checkbox
 ([X] or [ ]) next to their name.
 
\layout Standard

If you want to apply rules to all incoming messages and are collecting mail
 from different servers, simply apply the rules to the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

New Mail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 folder if you have one, alternatively you can set up rules for individual
 servers or INBOX.
\layout Subsection

The PalmOS Module
\layout Standard

When 3Com released its first PalmPilots several years ago, many people did
 not believe in a success.
 But they were proven wrong, the Palm Pilot (or short: Palm) is today the
 most used handheld organizer.
 
\layout Standard

For all the people possessing one of those´s little helpers, the PalmOS
 Module allows (or will allow) for an easy integration of the Palm´s data
 in Mahogany.
 In future releases there will be full support for addressbook synching,
 schedules etc.
 Currently you can only view the Palm´s addressbook (see above) and use
 
\emph on 
Mahogany 
\emph default 
as your Palm desktop software.
\layout Subsubsection

Desktop functionality
\layout Standard

As there is not really a common Palm desktop in the Unix/Linux environment
 (not like under MS Windows), we thought it a nice idea to include the desktop
 into 
\emph on 
Mahogany
\emph default 
.
 Therefore 
\emph on 
Mahogany
\emph default 
 does allow to
\layout Itemize

create backups of the Palm´s databases using the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Backup
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 function
\layout Itemize

restore the previously backup-ed databases using the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Restore
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 function
\layout Itemize

install new files to the Palm using the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Install
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 function
\layout Standard

To use this functionality, you must of course have the PalmOS module enabled.
 You can access the functions via the Plugin menu.
 In addition to the above mentioned tasks, you can specify quite a lot of
 options to adapt for instance the backup process to your personal needs.
 
\layout Standard

There is an additional function not mentioned yet, labelled 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Synchronize
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 Via the configuration dialog you can specify what should happen during
 synchronization - starting with mail exchange, backups and automatic installati
ons.
 Read the following section about the configuration dialog to get see how
 you can customize your PalmOS-Module.
\layout Subsubsection

The configuration dialog_10011_
\layout Standard

You can configure the PalmOS module via the Plugin menu in a lot of ways.
 Let´s go through every single item in the configuration dialog which you
 can access using the Plugin-Menu:
\layout Description

Synchronise\SpecialChar ~
Mail When you have this enabled, you can specify a mailbox which
 will be used as place of exchange for mails.
 Mails in this folder will be transfered to the Palm at the next hotsync
 and the outbox of the Palm´s mail program will be send.
 This mailbox is also used as a configuration setting for messages sent.
 
\emph on 
Mahogany
\emph default 
 will use the properties of this mailbox when sending the messages retrieved
 from the Palm's Outbox.
 If you have enabled the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

advanced user
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 option in the program preferences' identity tab, you can set up a separate
 return-address or completely different options for this mailbox and therefore
 have the mail sent from the PalmPilot with different settings as those
 sent normally.
 The options for user name and return address as set on the Palm are ignored
 when mails are sent with 
\emph on 
Mahogany
\emph default 
.
\layout Description

Mailbox\SpecialChar ~
for\SpecialChar ~
Exchange Enter here the name of the mailbox that should be used
 for mail exchange when you have the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Synchronise Mail
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 feature enabled (see above).
\layout Description

Mail\SpecialChar ~
disposal\SpecialChar ~
mode This specifies what to do with outgoing e-mails retrieved
 from the PalmPilot and sent.
 You have three options: 
\begin_deeper 
\layout Itemize

file : move messages from Outbox to Filed mailbox on the Palm
\layout Itemize

delete : delete messages after sending
\layout Itemize

keep : keep messages in Palm's Outbox
\end_deeper 
\layout Description

Always\SpecialChar ~
do\SpecialChar ~
Backup Setting this checkbox to true will make a backup take place
 every time you 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Synchronize
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
\layout Description

Directory\SpecialChar ~
for\SpecialChar ~
backup\SpecialChar ~
files This field does contain a valid directory path where
 the PalmOS-Module will store the backup of your Palm´s databases.
\layout Description

Delete\SpecialChar ~
no\SpecialChar ~
longer\SpecialChar ~
existing\SpecialChar ~
backups This checkbox determines whether you want
 files to be deleted on the PC that are residing in the backup directory
 but are not any longer on the Palm.
 This makes it possible to really keep the backup identical to the Palm,
 but has the disadvantage that you might loose data if you (accidently?)
 delete important data on the Palm and do a backup, as the backup-ed databases
 will be deleted too.
 So think carefully whether you do really want to do this.
\layout Description

Make\SpecialChar ~
incremental\SpecialChar ~
backup\SpecialChar ~
only Enable this checkbox if you only want to make
 an incremental backup.
 Using this features will speed the backup process up, as only changed or
 new databases are downloaded from the Palm.
\layout Description

Backup\SpecialChar ~
all\SpecialChar ~
databases Enabling this checkbox will make the PalmOS-Module ignore
 the backup flags of the databases.
 By default the PalmOS-Module does only backup files with a set backup flag.
 Use this option if you want all files to be backup´ed.
\layout Description

Exclude\SpecialChar ~
these\SpecialChar ~
databases Here you can specify a comma separated list of databases
 (without spaces!) that should not be backup´ed.
 
\layout Description

Do\SpecialChar ~
auto-install Using this feature enables the auto-install feature and everytime
 you 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Synchronize
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 the module will check the auto-install directory for Palm databases.
 If databases are found they will be installed and deleted without further
 notice!
\layout Description

Auto-install\SpecialChar ~
directory Specify here a directory where the files to be auto-instal
led can be found.
\layout Standard

Besides that, some general options are available:
\layout Description

Pilot\SpecialChar ~
device Here you can specify the device where the Pilot is residing
 (this ought to be /dev/pilot under Unix/Linux and Com1: or Com2: under
 MS Windows (not yet supported)).
\layout Description

Connection\SpecialChar ~
speed You have the choice beetween different hotsync speeds (
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

connection speed
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

), measured in baud.
 
\layout Description

Try\SpecialChar ~
to\SpecialChar ~
lock\SpecialChar ~
device You can force a lock of the above set device by enabling
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Try to lock device
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Subsubsection

Accessing the Palms
\layout Standard

There is the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

general
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 approach to get the Palm databases on your computer and the more selective
 one.
 For the first one, just use the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Synchronize
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 menu point in the plugin menu.
 Depending on what you have enabled in the configuration dialog (see above),
 different actions will be taken (backup, mail exchange, ...).
\layout Standard

If you only want to update your backup or to install a file or to restore
 your Palm´s contents, you can access these functions individually by using
 the corresponding menu points in the plugin menu.
\layout Chapter

Getting Help and Support
\layout Section

Troubleshooting
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{Troubleshooting}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Before asking for the help on our mailing lists, please try to see if you
 cannot fix, or, at least, understand the reasons of, the problem yourself.
 It is difficult to list everything which could go wrong here but here are
 some basic recommendations:
\layout Itemize

(Unix) If the program doesn't compile, please make sure you use GNU make.
 If it still doesn't help, please let us know about it but don't forget
 to include the compilation errors log (if there are too many errors, there
 is no need to include all of them, just the few first ones).
 If the problem has happened at configure time, please look at config.log
 file configure created and include it in your report.
\layout Itemize

(Unix) If the program crashes mysteriously please make sure you don't have
 incompatible and/or different versions of the program sources, headers
 and modules.
 Also, please check that you have only one version of wxWindows installed.
 Also, make sure to rebuild everything (ideally, create a new build directory)
 after installing or uninstalling a new wxWindows or Mahogany version.
 If the problem still persists, please try building the debug version of
 the program (you need debug wxWindows library and run configure --with-debug
 switch), run it under 
\noun on 
gdb
\noun default 
 and send us the output of 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

bt
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 command in the debugger when it crashes.
\layout Itemize

If your problem is related to receiving or sending mail, please look at
 the message log window for possible explanation.
 If you don't see the log window, make sure it wasn't disabled in the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Miscellaneous
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 (last) page of the preferences dialog - and reenable it if it was.
 If there is nothing helpful in the log window, please turn on 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Debug server and mailbox access
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 option in the same page.
 It may also be useful to enable logging to a file if the program crashes
 as the file contents, unlike the log window, is not lost in this case.
\layout Section

WWW Support
\layout Standard

Mahogany has a home on the world wide web where you can get up to date informati
on about development and the last releases.
 Come and visit us at the 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
htmladdnormallinkfoot{Mahogany Homepage}{http://mahogany.sourceforge.net/}
\layout Section

Mailing Lists
\layout Standard

Several mailing lists exist to contact the developers, to receive updates
 of new releases and to exchange information and experiences with other
 users.
 Please visit the 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
htmladdnormallinkfoot{Mahogany Project Page}{http://sourceforge.net/projects/maho
gany}
\latex default 
for more information and to join the lists.
\layout Standard

If you want to help further development of Mahogany, please go to the same
 place and you will find all the information you need about how to contribute
 or how to contact us.
\layout Chapter

Advanced Usage
\layout Section

Compiling 
\shape slanted 
Mahogany
\shape default 
 from source
\layout Standard

For detailed information on how to compile Mahogany yourself and how to
 change it or get involved in its development, please refer to the Hackers'
 Guide, included either in the
\latex latex 
 
\backslash 
htmladdnormallinkfoot{online docs}{../HackersGuide/index.html}
\latex default 
 or on the 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
htmladdnormallinkfoot{Mahogany Web page}{http://mahogany.sourceforge.net/docs.html}
\latex default 
.
\layout Standard

Some quick notes about common compilation problems can be found in the FAQ,
 in section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{CompileErrors}

\end_inset 

.
\layout Section

Using 
\shape slanted 
Mahogany
\shape default 
 more efficiently
\layout Standard

This section contains assorted tips about how you can make 
\shape slanted 
Mahogany
\shape default 
 run faster.
\layout Subsection

Speeding up 
\shape slanted 
Mahogany
\shape default 
 startup
\layout Standard

Unix users only: 
\shape slanted 
Mahogany
\shape default 
 accesses the file 
\noun on 
~/.M/config 
\noun default 
which stores all program options on startup.
 If this file is located on a slow partition such as a network disk (NFS),
 the startup time can be reduced just by moving it elsewhere and creating
 a link to it from 
\noun on 
~/.M
\noun default 
 directory.
\layout Standard

You can choose to not open any folders at startup (
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Folders
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 page of the options dialog) if doing this takes too long in your case.
 Also, remember to close the address book editor window if you don't want
 it to be reopened the next time you run 
\shape slanted 
Mahogany.
\layout Subsection

Limiting Amount of Data Transferred
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{limitdatatransfer}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

When using a remote server, especially over a slow link (such as a modem),
 it may be undesirable to automatically retrieve all messages from the server.
 Mahogany provides several options to help you with limiting the amount
 of data transferred.
\layout Standard

First, you should probably disable the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Open folder at single click
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Preview message when selected
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 options from the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Message View
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Miscellaneous
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 pages of the options dialog to avoid accidentally open a folder or a message.
\layout Standard

Second, there are several useful settings in the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Folders
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 page.
 Note that they can be set for each folder separately so you can only choose
 to change the default values for some slow servers but keep the original
 values for all the other ones.
 These options allow you to specify a threshold for message size: before
 downloading a message of size bigger than the specified (in Kb), you will
 be asked for the confirmation.
\layout Chapter

FAQ - Frequently Asked Questions_1002_
\layout Standard

Being a brand new program, this section is currently pretty empty.
 However, we will constantly update this chapter with questions received
 on the mailing lists.
\layout Section

Installation Problems
\layout Subsection

All Mahogany icons show a question mark
\layout Standard


\shape italic 
I'm a linuxuser (redhat) who just found Mahogany and really likes it, but
 I have a problem, I can't get all the widgets to work, the pictures on
 the buttons and the ones before the mailboxes all appear as an questionmark.
 Do I need some library to make it look like your screenshot? If you would
 assist me in this matter I would be very grateful.
\layout Standard

It depends how you installed it.
 If the icon with the question mark appears, it means that Mahogany didn't
 find its installation directory with the icons.
 If you installed the linux version from the .tar.gz with the binary, it should
 go into /usr/local or a similar place and you should have the icons in
 /usr/local/share/M/icons.
 If they are not there, Mahogany cannot find them.
 If you have installed it in a different location, Mahogany should ask you
 for the installation ("global Mahogany directory") when you start it for
 the first time.
\layout Standard

If you have compiled it yourself, make sure you do a "make install" or "make
 install_all" (of which parts might fail, depending on your setup), to install
 everything in the right place.
 If you just grabbed the binary of the daily snapshot, you need to have
 a working Mahogany installation as well or it won't get the icons.
 You do not need any additional library, Mahogany handles xpm files internally.
\layout Subsection

How do I unpack the compressed files?
\layout Standard

The distribution files for Solaris and some of the other ones are in compressed
 tar format, having the ending 
\family typewriter 
.tar.gz
\family default 
 .
 To unpack them you need 
\family typewriter 
gzip
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
tar
\family default 
.
 Change to the directory where you want to install Mahogany, e.g to 
\family typewriter 
/usr
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
/opt
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
/usr/local
\family default 
 and issue the following command: 
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
gzip -dc < thedistributionfile | tar xvof -
\layout Standard

Where 
\family typewriter 
thedistributionfile
\family default 
 is the complete path to the file you downloaded.
 You will need to have proper write access to the directory where you install
 it and 
\family typewriter 
tar
\family default 
 should show you a list of all files being installed as it unpacks them.
\layout Subsection

Compiling aborts with errors
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{CompileErrors}

\end_inset 

A common problem with compiling wxGTK and Mahogany is, that you need to
 follow the instructions in Mahogany's README file and use the configure
 script to set them up as explained.
 If you use different arguments for configure than those shown in README,
 things will not work! Also, before running configure again, remove any
 *.cache and *status files in the working directory or configure will re-use
 some old settings.
\layout Standard

Also, as we are omitting some unused subdirectories from the wxGTK source,
 to save you download time, you may need to run 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

make -k
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 rather than just 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

make
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 to get it to ignore some errors caused by this.
 On non-Linux/GNU systems, you need to use the GNU make utility, i.e.
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

gmake
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 rather than the default 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

make
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
\layout Subsection

Mahogany fails to find wxWindows, configure fails
\layout Standard

The following steps should identify and solve the problem:
\layout Enumerate

Do a "make install" for wxWindows and watch the output, it should copy lots
 of things to /usr/local/....
\layout Enumerate

Do a "which wx-config", it should report wx-config to be in /usr/local/bin
\layout Enumerate

Just type "wx-config --cxxflags", it should run the wx-config script and
 report the compiler flags, which should include something like "-I/usr/local/in
clude".
\layout Enumerate

Then go to the Mahogany directory and "rm *cache*" to remove old configuration
 info and run ./configure
\layout Enumerate

This *should* find wx/wx.h if all of the above worked, if not, look at the
 end of config.log to see what went wrong.
\layout Enumerate

If it does not find the wxWindows library, you need to add /usr/local/lib
 to either your LD_LIBRARY_PATH or to /etc/ld.so.conf (and run /sbin/ldconfig
 as root), then remove *cache* and try again.
 Again, if something fails, look at config.log.
\layout Subsection

SSL does not work
\layout Standard


\shape italic 
I went to the "Miscellaneous" tab in preferences menu and made sure the
 pathnames of libcrypto and libssl where correct.
 I enabled SSL in the access tab of my mail folder preferences.
 However, when I try to open that folder, it fails and the log window talks
 about being unable to load libssl.
\layout Standard

Under Linux, this is due to a combination of factors, fixing one of them
 is enough to fix the problem.
 Versions of libssl.so older than 0.9.6 require libcrypto to be explicitly
 loaded beforehand.
 Updating to version 0.9.6 or newer fixes the problem.
 Versions of libwx_gtk older than or equal to 2.2.0 load shared libraries
 in such a way that, even though M loads libcrypto, libssl still fails to
 load.
 Upgrading libwx_gtk to a later version will fix the problem.
 Finally, if everything else fails, starting M with the command: 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libcrypto.so M
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 will fix the problem as well.
 If the second solution is used, the pathname of libcrypto.so must be set
 properly.
 Otherwise it is better to leave it blank.
\layout Section

Other Problems / Questions
\layout Subsection

The Preferences Dialog does not show up properly
\layout Standard


\shape italic 
When I set up Mahogany or select the preferences dialog, its contents do
 not appear.
 Sometimes I cannot enter anything in the fields.
\layout Standard

wxGTK has a problem with constraint handling which can cause this dialog
 to sometimes get into an endless loop trying to do the layout.
 On most windowmanagers it helps if you resize the dialog a little and it
 will appear correctly.
 This seems to depend on the platform and window manager.
 Also, wxGTK does not seem to work correctly with OpenLook which does not
 allow you to enter anything.
\layout Standard

Sometimes there may be some dialog window opened behind Mahogany window
 or on another desktop.
 Please check this (with Alt-Tab) if you think Mahogany got stuck.
\layout Subsection

How to use Mahogany with fetchmail/procmail?
\layout Standard


\shape italic 
I use fetchmail and procmail to deliver my mail (Redhat Linux).
 I'm reading mail with Netscape right now and I want to move to M.
 I cannot for the life of me get M to open my mail when it loads.
 I have to open them manually.
 Can someone please help me to get M to open all of my Linux Folders at
 startup.
\layout Standard

You should be able to right-click on the folder treecontrol on the left
 of the main screen and "Create a new folder".
 Make it of type "file" and specify the path to the the folder file as the
 filename.
 Your normal mailspool /var/spool/mail/username is available under the name
 INBOX anyway, but I guess you have fetchmail/procmail deliver your mail
 to some other place.
\layout Subsection

Does Mahogany have group aliases?
\layout Standard

Mahogany supports alias expansion for individual entries and for groups.
 There are two ways in which you can expand an alias to a group of addresses:
\layout Itemize

The quick and dirty approach: Create an addressbook entry and simply list
 multiple, comma separated, addresses in its Email field.
 Mahogany will use the whole contents of this field when expanding aliases.
 
\layout Itemize

The more elegant method: Create a new group in your addressbook and add
 the individual addresses as sub-entries of this group.
 If you use the group name as a mail alias, Mahogany will expand it to the
 list of email addresses of all of its group members.
 This is more powerful, as you can easily add and remove entries to sub
 groups.
\layout Subsection

How can I set up POP3/IMAP access?
\layout Standard


\shape italic 
It is not immediately apparent how to set up my POP3 server under 0.23a ,
 can someone give me a hand, please? It appears there is no section in the
 initial configuration utility for this.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{POP3}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Mahogany allows you to have as many folders or mail accounts as you like.
 That's why it doesn't ask you at the beginning.
 To add a POP account: 
\layout Enumerate

right click on the folder tree and choose "Create Folder" 
\layout Enumerate

give the folder a name, set its type to POP3 and fill in the required fields,
 such as server and login 
\layout Enumerate

Click on [OK].
 The folder will now appear in the tree 
\layout Enumerate

Double-click on the folder to open it.
\layout Itemize

If opening fails, right click on it again and choose "Properties", make
 sure that all settings are correct.
\layout Itemize

- If you want Mahogany to collect all mail from that box, you can tick that
 checkbox and whenever Mahogany starts, it will open that box and continue
 collecting all mail from there and move it to the "New Mail" folder.
\layout Subsection

How can I set up IMAP access?
\layout Standard

Follow the rules for setting up POP3 access
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{POP3}

\end_inset 

 but set the folder type to be 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

IMAP folder
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 Then enter the name of your IMAP server, your username and password (or
 leave it empty to be asked later) for that server and, optionally, the
 path to the folder on the IMAP server.
 You can leave the path empty, and it will use the default folder (usually
 INBOX).
\layout Standard

If you want to access many IMAP folders on the same server, or a directory
 there, you can create foldertree entries representing the IMAP server itself
 (i.e.
 the top-level directory on it) or a directory on the IMAP server.
 For these, if not using the Wizard dialog, make sure that the folder properties
 dialog has the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

is directory
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 checkbox ticked, which tells Mahogany that it is not a mailbox file to
 open, but a directory which can be browsed for entries via the popup menu.
\layout Subsection

Can I have multiple POP3 or IMAP accounts?
\layout Standard


\shape italic 
Can I access multiple different POP3 or IMAP accounts?
\layout Standard

Yes, 
\shape italic 
Mahogany
\shape default 
 allows you to have any number of different folders configured.
 Just right-click on the folder tree control and choose the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Create Folder...
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 option from the popup-menu.
 You can then switch between the different folders by selecting them (usually
 with a double-click on the tree control) for display in the main window,
 or, by selecting 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Open
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 from the popup-menu which will open the folders in their own individual
 windows.
\layout Standard

You can also select the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Collect all mail from this folder
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 option when creating the entries for them (or later, via the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Preferences
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 popup-menu option) to let 
\shape italic 
Mahogany
\shape default 
 automatically check these accounts for new mail and collect it from there.
\layout Subsection

Can I have multiple identities?
\layout Standard


\shape italic 
Does Mahogany allow me to send email as different people? That is, if I
 monitor two IMAP or POP servers, one for my work email, and one for my
 home email, can I reply to emails and specify it to use my home or work
 email address as the sender?
\layout Standard

Yes, you can set almost *all* options on a per-folder basis, including your
 name or return address, even outgoing SMTP servers to make it perfect.
 To have full access to all these configuration options in the folder properties
 dialog, you must first set your user level to 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

advanced
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 in the main configuration dialog, otherwise only a small subset of configuratio
n options is available.
 You can also create global identities which are available in all folders.
\layout Subsection

Can I run Mahogany as root?
\layout Standard


\shape italic 
Very simple question: can I run Mahogany on a unix system as the superuser
 (root)?
\layout Standard

Not directly.
 There are two problems with it:
\layout Enumerate

It is not a good idea for security reasons.
 In fact, you should not even run X11 as root.
 Though, we would not dare to impose that on you, if you want to, that is
 your problem.
\layout Enumerate

The technical reason, and this is why Mahogany does not allow it: The c-client
 library that we use for accessing mail folders and servers uses the user-Id
 0 (root) internally and does not work when called as root.
 When inquiring why this is so, c-client's author told us that it was bad
 to read mail as root - he thinks he knows what is good for you.
 Unless we find an easy way to circumvent that problem, you will not be
 able to run Mahogany as root as we have no time and desire to re-write
 the c-client library just for this.
\layout Standard

There is a workaround however:
\layout Standard

You can forward your email to another user, say 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\family typewriter 
user1
\family default 

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, by creating a 
\family typewriter 
/root/.forward 
\family default 
file containing that user's name.
 Then, run Mahogany through the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\family typewriter 
su
\family default 

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 command: 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\family typewriter 
su user1 -c mahogany
\family default 

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 This will work just fine.
 If you get an error message about it being unable to access your X11 display,
 do a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\family typewriter 
xhost localhost
\family default 

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 before, which will allow all local users to access your display.
 All this is not very safe from a security point of view if you don't trust
 your local machine, but perfectly fine for standalone or dialup boxes.
\layout Standard

Update: Mahogany now runs as "root".
\layout Subsection

How can I set which language to use?
\layout Standard

Under Unix: simply set and export your LANG environment variable like for
 any other program, too.
 Under Windows: the environment variable LANG will be recognised if it is
 set, but in addition Mahogany will automatically detect which language
 your system is set to use.
\layout Subsection

How can I delete messages?
\layout Standard


\shape italic 
If I press 'D' or 'Del' or use the menu to delete messages, they get marked
 as deleted but never disappear.
 How can I delete them?
\layout Standard

Simple, press '#' or 'x' or select Message/Expunge from the menu.
 Mahogany will also ask you if you want to expunge them when closing the
 folder.
 If you use the Trash folder, this only applies to that one as all other
 folders will move messages straight to Trash instead of marking them deleted.
\layout Subsection

How can I forward a message with attachments?
\layout Standard

Do "Forward with template" and create a new template containing $quote822
 - this will forward the entire message.
 You can also change the default forward template to do it.
\layout Subsection

How can I customize the position of folders in the tree?
\layout Standard

Just add 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Index=N
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 entry in the folder profile section of the config file (or registry under
 Windows).
 I.e.:
\layout Standard

[IMAP/Inbox]
\layout Standard

Index=0
\layout Standard

...
\layout Standard

[IMAP/Mahogany]
\layout Standard

Index=1
\layout Standard

...
\layout Standard

[IMAP/Junk]
\layout Standard

Index=100
\layout Paragraph


\series medium 
then Inbox and Mahogany will appear first and Junk last in the tree.
\the_end
